#### About Carbon Monoxide
These layers show carbon monoxide in units of parts per billion by volume at the 500 hPa pressure level, approximately 5500 meters (18,000 feet) above sea level. The 500 hPa pressure level is near the divide between upper and lower halves of atmospheric mass and is often referred to as a steering level. Many midlatitude weather systems between this level and Earth's surface move in roughly the same direction as winds at the 500 hPa level. Carbon monoxide is a pollutant that can persist in the atmosphere for roughly one month and be transported large distances, and it plays a role in both air pollution and climate change. Carbon monoxide is produced in the incomplete combustion of carbon-containing fuels such as gasoline, natural gas, oil, coal, and wood. Humans contribute large quantities of carbon monoxide, mostly as a result of automobile emissions. Natural sources include volcanoes and wildfires. Carbon monoxide is the most abundant pollutant (by mass) in the Earth’s atmosphere.

#### About AIRS
AIRS, in conjunction with the Advanced Microwave Sounding Unit (AMSU), senses emitted infrared and microwave radiation from Earth to provide a three-dimensional look at Earth's weather and climate. Working in tandem, the two instruments make simultaneous observations down to Earth's surface. With more than 2,000 channels sensing different regions of the atmosphere, the system creates a global, three-dimensional map of atmospheric temperature and humidity, cloud amounts and heights, greenhouse gas concentrations and many other atmospheric phenomena. Launched into Earth orbit in 2002, the AIRS and AMSU instruments fly onboard NASA's Aqua spacecraft and are managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.

More information about AIRS can be found at [https://airs.jpl.nasa.gov](https://airs.jpl.nasa.gov).