### About Dust Score
Dust score is determined from multiple tests that compare radiances in select AIRS spectral channels. Radiances measured in channels that are sensitive to dust are compared to radiances measured in channels that are not sensitive to dust. The differences between several pairs of channels are represented as a dust score. Higher scores indicate more certainty that dust is present. Dust is probable when the score is above 380. AIRS dust can also be a proxy for volcanic ash. Dust products derived from AIRS observations can indicate the possibility of volcanic activity, but more detailed analysis is required to confirm the presence of volcanic clouds or estimate the composition and quantity of materials in the clouds.

### About AIRS
AIRS, in conjunction with the Advanced Microwave Sounding Unit (AMSU), senses emitted infrared and microwave radiation from Earth to provide a three-dimensional look at Earth's weather and climate. Working in tandem, the two instruments make simultaneous observations down to Earth's surface. With more than 2,000 channels sensing different regions of the atmosphere, the system creates a global, three-dimensional map of atmospheric temperature and humidity, cloud amounts and heights, greenhouse gas concentrations and many other atmospheric phenomena. Launched into Earth orbit in 2002, the AIRS and AMSU instruments fly onboard NASA's Aqua spacecraft and are managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California.

More information about AIRS can be found at [https://airs.jpl.nasa.gov](https://airs.jpl.nasa.gov).
