### Sea Surface Height Anomalies (L4)
Temporal coverage: 1 October 1992 - 31 January 2019
The Sea Surface Height Anomalies (L4) layer show gridded Sea Surface Height Anomalies (SSHA) above a mean sea surface, on 1/6th degree grid every 5 days. It contains the fully corrected heights, but delayed 3 months.

The gridded data are derived from the SSHA data of TOPEX/Poseidon, Jason-1, Jason-2 and Jason-3 as reference data from the level 2 swath data found at [https://podaac.jpl.nasa.gov/dataset/MERGED_TP_J1_OSTM_OST_CYCLES_V42](https://podaac.jpl.nasa.gov/dataset/MERGED_TP_J1_OSTM_OST_CYCLES_V42), plus ERS-1, ERS-2, Envisat, SARAL-AltiKa, CRyosat-2, depending on the date, from the RADS database. The gridding is done by the kriging method. The date given in the data is the center of the 5 day window.

References: doi [10.5067/SLREF-CDRV2](https://doi.org/10.5067/SLREF-CDRV2)

### Sea Surface Height Anomalies (GDR Cycles)
Temporal coverage: 3 October 1992 - 22 November 2017
The Sea Surface Height Anomalies (GDR Cycles) layer is a part of the Integrated Multi-Mission Ocean Altimeter Data for Climate Research dataset which contains along track geo-referenced Sea Surface Height Anomalies (SSHA) from TOPEX/Poseidon, Jason-1 and OSTM/Jason-2 (depending on time period) merged into a single mean reference orbit.  All biases and cross-calibrations have been applied to the data so SSHA are consistent between satellites to form a single climate data record.  Altimeter data from the multi-mission Geophysical Data Records (GDRs) are interpolated to a common reference orbit facilitating direct time series analysis of the geo-referenced SSH.  The data are in netCDF format. Each file consists of one cycle of data, which is approximately 10 days long.  Cycle 001 coincides with cycle 001 of TOPEX/Poseidon (September 25-October 3, 1992).

References: doi:[10.5067/ALTCY-TJ124](https://doi.org/10.5067/ALTCY-TJ124)

### Sea Surface Height Anomalies (Reconstructed)
Temporal coverage: 3 January 1950 - 3 July 2009
The Sea Surface Height Anomalies (Reconstructed) layer is a part of the Reconstructed Sea Level dataset which contains sea level anomalies derived from satellite altimetry and tide gauges.  The satellite altimetric record provides accurate measurements of sea level with near-global coverage, but it has a relatively short time span, since 1993. Tide gauges have measured sea level over the last 200 years, with some records extending back to 1807, but they only provide regional coverage, not global.  Combining satellite altimetry with tide gauges, using a technique known as sea level reconstruction, results in a dataset with the record length of the tide gauges and the near-global coverage of satellite altimetry.  Cyclostationary empirical orthogonal functions (CSEOFs), derived from satellite altimetry, are combined with historical sea level measurements from tide gauges to create the Reconstructed Sea Level dataset spanning from 1950 through 2009. Combining the altimetric and tide gauge records alleviates the difficulties caused by the short record length and poor spatial distribution of the satellite altimetry and tide gauges, respectively.  Previous sea level reconstructions have utilized empirical orthogonal functions (EOFs) as basis functions, but by using CSEOFs and by addressing other aspects of the reconstruction procedure, an alternative sea level reconstruction can be computed. The resulting reconstructed sea level dataset has weekly temporal resolution and half-degree spatial resolution.  For specific information on the algorithm and how the CSEOFs are applied to the tide gauge data please see Hamlington et al. 2011.

References: doi:[10.5067/RECSL-000V1](https://doi.org/10.5067/RECSL-000V1)

### Sea Surface Height Anomalies (US West Coast, GAFECC)
Temporal coverage: 14 October 1992 - 19 January 2011
The Sea Surface Height Anomalies (US West Coast, GAFECC) layer is created from the Gridded Altimeter Fields with Enhanced Coastal Coverage data product. The product contains Sea Surface Height Anomalies (SSHA or SLA) and zonal and meridional geostrophic velocities for the US west coast encompassing 35.25 deg-48.5 deg N latitude and 227.75 deg-248.5 deg E longitude. This annually updated data product extends from October 14, 1992 through November 4, 2009. SSHA and current velocities are derived from the AVISO quarter degree DT UPD MSLA version 3.0 grids, 0.75 deg and greater away from the coast.  Values within 0.75 deg of the coast are derived from tide gauge observations and interpolated out to the altimeter filled region.  Details on how these data are derived can be found in: Saraceno, M., P. T. Strub, and P. M. Kosro (2008), Estimates of sea surface height and near-surface alongshore coastal currents from combinations of altimeters and tide gauges, J. Geophys. Res., 113, C11013, doi:[10.1029/2008JC004756](https://doi.org/10.1029/2008JC004756).
