### About Water Vapor
Almost all of atmospheric moisture is in the form of water vapor. This water vapor drives the development of weather systems on short time scales and influences the climate on longer time scales. Water vapor is Earth’s primary greenhouse gas and traps more heat than carbon dioxide. The movement of water vapor around the globe helps determine the amount of precipitation a region might receive and helps transport heat from the tropics to the poles.

### About OCO-3
The Orbiting Carbon Observatory-3 (OCO-3) was deployed to the International Space Station in May, 2019. It is technically a single instrument, almost identical to OCO-2. OCO-3 "Early" version is an expedited version intended for provisional familiarizing with the instrument spectral and calibration properties. The Orbiting Carbon Observatory is the first NASA mission designed to collect space-based measurements of atmospheric carbon dioxide with the precision, resolution, and coverage needed to characterize the processes controlling its buildup in the atmosphere. OCO-3 incorporates three high-resolution spectrometers that make coincident measurements of reflected sunlight in the near-infrared CO2 near 1.61 and 2.06 micrometers and in molecular oxygen (O2) A-Band at 0.76 micrometers. The three spectrometers have different characteristics and are calibrated independently. This collection encompass the output from the IMAP-DOAS preprocessor, which is used for both screening of the official XCO2 product as well as for the retrieval of Solar-Induced Fluorescence from the 0.76 micrometer O2 A-band. The IMAP-DOAS preprocessor, just as the ABO2 cloud screen, is implemented in the operational OCO-3 processing pipeline.