The Flood Hazard: Economic Risk layer indicates the the proportional economic impacts of global flood hazard between 1985 and 2003. The information displayed in Worldview/Global Imagery Browse Services (GIBS) reflects the decile within which the risk lies, ranging from low to high economic risk: 1st - 4th, 5th - 7th, 8th - 10th decile.

Global Flood Proportional Economic Loss Risk Deciles is a 2.5 minute grid (4.5 km at the equator) of flood hazard economic loss as proportions of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per analytical unit. Estimates of GDP at risk are based on regional economic loss rates derived from historical records of the Emergency Events Database (EM-DAT). Loss rates are weighted by the hazard's frequency and distribution. The vulnerability weights are based on historical economic losses in previous disasters. The economic loss risks are applied to GDP per unit area exposure to obtain economic loss risks. The weights are an aggregate index relative to losses within each region and country wealth class (classifications based on 2000 GDP) over the 20-year period from 1981 –2000. This index is then normalized by GDP. The methodology of Sachs et al. (2003) is followed to determine baseline estimates of GDP per grid cell. To better reflect the confidence surrounding the data and procedures, the range of proportionalities is classified into deciles, 10 classes of an approximately equal number of grid cells of increasing risk.

The layer can be viewed in Worldview/GIBS and the data can be downloaded from the [Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC)](http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/data/set/ndh-flood-proportional-economic-loss-risk-deciles).
