### Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (771 nm)

The OCO-2 Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence 771 nm layer displays the fluorescence emission from land surfaces derived from in-filling of solar Fraunhofer lines in the 771 nm region of the measured spectrum. Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (SIF) is a byproduct of plant photosynthesis and is a direct measurement of plant response during respiration. During photosynthesis, among the other light reactions, a photon can be re-emitted and this energy decay is known as chlorophyll fluorescence.  SIF is a complement to existing greenness indicators such as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and can be used to serve as a functional proxy for Gross Primary Productivity (GPP).

The Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 (OCO-2) is a three-channel imaging grating spectrometer that primarily collects cloud-free XCO<sub>2</sub> observations continuously over the globe by measuring reflected sunlight in the near-infrared. One of the OCO-2 channels, the O<sub>2</sub> A-band, contains multiple Fraunhofer lines and thus allows for the retrieval of SIF. The absorption at 771 nm is about 1.5 times smaller than at 757 nm, but both values are made available for analysis. However, the blended SIF is the recommended product.  The OCO-2 Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence 771 nm parameter is taken from the OCO-2 Level 2 Lite SIF product. OCO-2 makes eight simultaneous, adjacent measurements, each with a spatial resolution of 2.25 km x 1.29 km. These measurements are then mapped onto a 500 m<sup>2</sup> grid. The repeat cycle for OCO-2 is every 16 days.

### Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (757 nm)

The OCO-2 Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence 757 nm layer displays the fluorescence emission from land surfaces derived from in-filling of solar Fraunhofer lines in the 757 nm region of the measured spectrum. Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (SIF) is a byproduct of plant photosynthesis and is a direct measurement of plant response during respiration. During photosynthesis, among the other light reactions, a photon can be re-emitted and this energy decay is known as chlorophyll fluorescence.  SIF is a complement to existing greenness indicators such as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and can be used to serve as a functional proxy for Gross Primary Productivity (GPP).

The Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 (OCO-2) is a three-channel imaging grating spectrometer that primarily collects cloud-free XCO<sub>2</sub> observations continuously over the globe by measuring reflected sunlight in the near-infrared. One of the OCO-2 channels, the O<sub>2</sub> A-band, contains multiple Fraunhofer lines and thus allows for the retrieval of SIF. The absorption at 757 nm is about 1.5 times larger than at 771 nm, but both values are made available for analysis. However, the blended SIF is the recommended product.  The OCO-2 Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence 757 nm parameter is taken from the OCO-2 Level 2 Lite SIF product. OCO-2 makes eight simultaneous, adjacent measurements, each with a spatial resolution of 2.25 km x 1.29 km. These measurements are then mapped onto a 500 m<sup>2</sup> grid. The repeat cycle for OCO-2 is every 16 days.

### Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (Blended)

The OCO-2 Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (Blended) layer displays the fluorescence emission from land surfaces derived from in-filling of solar Fraunhofer lines at the 757 nm and 771 nm regions of the measured spectrum. Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (SIF) is a byproduct of plant photosynthesis and is a direct measurement of plant response during respiration. During photosynthesis, among the other light reactions, a photon can be re-emitted and this energy decay is known as chlorophyll fluorescence.  SIF is a complement to existing greenness indicators such as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and can be used to serve as a functional proxy for Gross Primary Productivity (GPP).

The Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2 (OCO-2) is a three-channel imaging grating spectrometer that primarily collects cloud-free XCO<sub>2</sub> observations continuously over the globe by measuring reflected sunlight in the near-infrared. One of the OCO-2 channels, the O<sub>2</sub> A-band, contains multiple Fraunhofer lines and thus allows for the retrieval of SIF. The blended SIF value is calculated by averaging the 757 nm SIF and 1.5 times the 771 nm SIF values. The OCO-2 Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (Blended) parameter is taken from the OCO-2 Level 2 Lite product. OCO-2 makes eight simultaneous, adjacent measurements, each with a spatial resolution of 2.25 km x 1.29 km. These measurements are then mapped onto a 500 m<sup>2</sup> grid. The repeat cycle for OCO-2 is every 16 days.

References: Frankenberg et al. Prospects for chlorophyll fluorescence remote sensing from the Orbiting Carbon Observatory-2, Remote Sensing of Environment, Vol 147, 5 May. 2014, Pgs 1-12, [doi: 10.1016/j.rse.2014.02.007](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2014.02.007); [GES DISC - OCO-2 Documents](https://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/information/documents?title=OCO-2%20Documents); [OCO-2 Data Center](https://ocov2.jpl.nasa.gov/science/OCO2DataCenter/)
