### About HARP2
The Hyper-Angular Rainbow Polarimeter #2 (HARP2) instrument, flying aboard the PACE spacecraft, is a wide-angle imaging polarimeter designed to measure aerosol particles and clouds, as well as properties of land and water surfaces. The amount and type of particles in suspension in the atmosphere are relevant to applications pertaining to health effects, cloud life cycle and precipitation, climate, etc. HARP2 will combine data from multiple along-track viewing angles (up to 60 degrees), four spectral bands in the visible and near infrared ranges, and three angles of linear polarization to measure the microphysical properties of the atmospheric particles including their size distribution, amount, refractive indices and particle shape.

### About PACE
[PACE](https://pace.gsfc.nasa.gov/) is NASA's Plankton, Aerosol, Cloud, ocean Ecosystem mission. The mission carries the Ocean Color Instrument (OCI), the Spectro-Polarimeter for Planetary Exploration (SPEXone), and the Hyper Angular Research Polarimeter (HARP2). OCI, PACE’s primary instrument, is an optical spectrometer that measures the intensity of light over portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. SPEXone and HARP2 are multi-angle polarimeters and they will be used to measure how the oscillation of sunlight within a geometric plane - known as its polarization - is changed by passing through clouds, aerosols, and the ocean. Measuring polarization states of UV-to-shortwave light at various angles provides detailed information on the atmosphere and ocean, such as particle size and composition. PACE will cover the entire globe every two days.
