The Reflectance (Nadir BRDF Adjusted, v1.5) imagery layer from Sentinel 2A and 2B/MSI is a true-color or natural color image because this combination of wavelengths is similar to what the human eye would see. It consists of natural-looking images of land surface, oceanic and atmospheric features. The Reflectance (Nadir BRDF Adjusted, v1.5) imagery layer from Sentinel 2A and 2B/MSI provides 30m Nadir Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function (BRDF)-Adjusted Reflectance (NBAR) and is derived from a combination of the European Union’s Copernicus Sentinel-2A and Sentinel-2B Multi-Spectral Instrument (MSI) data products through the Harmonized Landsat and Sentinel-2 (HLS) project.

The HLS project provides consistent surface reflectance data from the Operational Land Imager (OLI) aboard the joint NASA/USGS Landsat 8 satellite and the Multi-Spectral Instrument (MSI) aboard the European Union’s Copernicus Sentinel-2A and Sentinel-2B satellites. The combined measurements between Landsat 8, Sentinel-2A, and Sentinel-2B enable global observations of the land every 2-3 days at 30 meter (m) spatial resolution. The HLS project uses a set of algorithms to obtain seamless products from OLI and MSI that include atmospheric correction, cloud and cloud-shadow masking, spatial co-registration and common gridding, illumination and view angle normalization, and spectral bandpass adjustment.

The Reflectance (Nadir BRDF-Adjusted, v1.5) product (S30) is available through the HLS project from the Multi-Spectral Instrument (MSI) aboard the European Union’s Copernicus Sentinel-2A and Sentinel-2B satellites. The sensor resolution is 10, 20, and 60 m, imagery resolution is resampled to 30 m, and the temporal resolution is daily with a 5 day revisit time. There is a separate Landsat imagery layer available.

Note: PROVISIONAL - The Harmonized Landsat and Sentinel-2 (HLS) data have not been validated for their science quality and should not be used in science research or applications.

References: [HLSS30 v015: HLS Sentinel-2 Multi-Spectral Instrument Surface Reflectance Daily Global 30 m](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/hlss30v015/)
