**NOTE: This layer is undergoing beta testing.**

The dynamically generated Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) (B5-B4)/(B5+B4) imagery layer is an index for quantifying green vegetation. It reflects the state of vegetation health based on how vegetation reflects light at certain wavelengths. It is calculated using near infrared and red wavelengths using the calculation NDVI = (B5-B4)/(B5+B4). Depicted in dark green colors are areas with a lot of green leaf growth which indicates the presence of chlorophyll. Chlorophyll reflects more infrared light and less visible light. Areas with some green leaf growth are in light greens, and areas with little to no vegetation growth are even lighter greens.

The Reflectance imagery layer from Landsat 8 and 9/OLI product (L30) is available through the HLS project from the Operational Land Imager (OLI) aboard the Landsat 8 and 9 satellites. The sensor resolution is 30 m, imagery resolution is 30 m, and the temporal resolution is daily with an 8 day revisit time. The imagery is available in Worldview/GIBS approximately 2 - 4 days after satellite overpass. There is a separate combined Sentinel-2A and Sentinel-2B  imagery layer available.

This imagery layer is provided dynamically through the [NASA Interagency Implementation and Advanced Concepts Team (IMPACT)](https://earthdata.nasa.gov/esds/impact). As it is dynamically generated, it may take slightly longer to display than normal. The imagery is also only available at higher zoom levels.

References: HLSL30 v002 [doi:10.5067/HLS/HLSL30.002](https://doi.org/10.5067/HLS/HLSL30.002)