The Sulfur Dioxide (Total Vertical Column, L2, Daily) layer displays the total vertical column of sulfur dioxide for the polluted scenario derived from the total slant column/total vertical column density of sulfur dioxide (SO2) for a sulfur dioxide plume at 15km altitude w.r.t. the sea level/7km altitude w.r.t. the sea level/1km altitude w.r.t. the topography measured in Dobson Units (DU).

The retrieval algorithm for Sentinel-5P TROPOMI SO2 from ultraviolet spectral measurements is the Differential Optical Absorption Spectroscopy (DOAS) method. The relevant information of absorption cross section, instrument characteristics, cloud cover, and geolocation are utilized to derive SO2 slant column density (SCD). A sensitive spectral window of 312 to 326 nm is set as the baseline for the slant column fit with another two spectral windows (325 to 335 nm, 360 to 390 nm) to account for the non-linear effects in those high column amount cases. The SCD is then corrected with the empirical offsets to the systematic biases. The air mass factor (AMF) Look-up table has been created with the LIDORT radiative transfer model. The outputs of the DOAS algorithm are SO2 vertical column density (VCD), SCD, AMF, the DOAS-type averaging kernels (AK), and error estimates.

The Sulfur Dioxide (Total Vertical Column, L2, Daily) layer is a science parameter of the Sentinel-5P TROPOMI Sulphur Dioxide SO2 1-Orbit L2 5.5km x 3.5km (S5P_L2__SO2____HiR) product. It is available from the TROPOspheric Monitoring Instrument (TROPOMI) instrument aboard the European Space Agency's (ESA) Sentinel-5P satellite. The sensor resolution is ~5.5km at nadir (5.5 x 3.5 km<sup>2</sup>), the imagery resolution is 2 km, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: S5P_L2__SO2____HiR [doi:10.5270/S5P-74eidii](https://doi.org/10.5270/S5P-74eidii)