The Plankton, Aerosol, Cloud, ocean Ecosystem Postlaunch Airborne eXperiment (PACE-PAX) NASA ER-2 Flight Tracks provide the locations of where the NASA ER-2 aircraft collected measurements to support the PACE-PAX field campaign. The high-altitude ER-2 was equipped with a remote sensing payload, including the Airborne Hyper-Angular Rainbow Polarimeter-2 (AirHARP2), High Spectral Resolution Lidar-2 (HSRL-2), Research Scanning Polarimeter (RSP), Spectro-Polarimeter for Exploration-Airborne (SPEX-Airborne), Portable Remote Imaging Spectrometer (PRISM), and Pushbroom Imager for Cloud and Aerosol Research and Development (PICARD). The ER-2 completed 13 research flights across 70+ flight hours during the campaign.

PACE-PAX was conducted in September 2024 to gather data for the validation and refinement of data products generated by the PACE satellite mission. PACE-PAX obtained measurements over Southern and Central California and nearby coastal regions. Scheduled for roughly 9 months after the launch of PACE, two aircraft, NASA’s ER-2 high-altitude aircraft, and the CIRPAS Twin Otter aircraft (in situ sampling) collected measurements to specifically address validation of new PACE and EarthCARE products. Based out of their respective home airports (NASA Armstrong Flight Research Center for the ER-2 and Marina Municipal Airport for the Twin Otter), flights were coordinated between the two aircraft, PACE satellite overpasses, and ground and ocean-based observations. With a robust suite of in situ and remote sensing instruments, and ground-based observations, PACE-PAX validated and refined PACE data products and identified any potential errors or biases in the measurements, which is essential for ensuring the accuracy and reliability of the PACE data products and maximizing the scientific value of the mission. The following were validation objectives for PACE-PAX: Validate new retrieval parameters; Assess spatial and temporal scale impact on validation; Validate within the instrument swath of all PACE instruments; Validate radiometric and polarimetric properties; Target specific geometries, season, and time of day; and focus on specific processes or phenomena (e.g., high-aerosol loads over land and ocean, multiple aerosol layers).

References: [PACE-PAX Overview](https://pace.oceansciences.org/pace-pax.htm); [PACE Overview](https://pace.oceansciences.org/); PACE-PAX Campaign doi:[10.5067/SUBORBITAL/PACE-PAX/DATA001](https://doi.org/10.5067/SUBORBITAL/PACE-PAX/DATA001); PACE-PAX Meteorology and Navigation Data doi:[10.5067/ASDC/SUBORBITAL/PACE-PAX/ER2/MetNav_AircraftInSitu_1](https:/doi.org/10.5067/ASDC/SUBORBITAL/PACE-PAX/ER2/MetNav_AircraftInSitu_1)
