### Cyclone Hazard: Frequency and Distribution
The Cyclone Hazard: Frequency and Distribution layer indicates the relative distribution and frequency of global cyclone hazard. The information displayed in Worldview/Global Imagery Browse Services (GIBS) shows the range of the number of cyclones from 1980-2000: 1-5, 6-15, 15-30, 31-65.

The SEDAC Cyclone Hazard: Frequency and Distribution layer is a 2.5 minute grid (4.5km at the equator) based on more than 1,600 storm tracks for the period 1 January 1980 through 31 December 2000 for the Atlantic, Pacific, and Indian Oceans that were assembled and modeled at UNEP/GRID-Geneva PreView. Wind speeds around storm tracks were modeled using Holland's model (1997) to assess the grid cells likely to have been exposed to high wind levels. Post-modeling, the cells were divided into deciles, 10 classes consisting of approximately equal number of grid cells. The higher the value of the grid cell, the higher the decile ranking and the greater the frequency of the hazard relative to other cells.

The layer can be viewed in Worldview/GIBS and the data can be downloaded from the [Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC)](http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/data/set/ndh-cyclone-hazard-frequency-distribution).

### Cyclone Hazard: Mortality Risk
The Cyclone Hazard: Mortality Risk layer indicates the global cyclone mortality risks and distribution for the period 1981-2000. The information displayed in Worldview/Global Imagery Browse Services (GIBS) reflects the decile within which the risk lies, ranging from low to high mortality risk: 1st - 4th, 5th - 7th, 8th - 10th decile.

Global Cyclone Mortality Risks and Distribution is a 2.5 minute grid (4.5km at the equator) of global cyclone mortality risks. Gridded Population of the World, Version 3 (GPWv3) data provide a baseline estimation of population per grid cell from which to estimate potential mortality loss. Mortality loss estimates per hazard event are calculated using regional, hazard-specific mortality records of the Emergency Events Database (EM-DAT) that span the 20 years between 1981 and 2000. Data regarding the frequency and distribution of cyclone hazard are obtained from the Global Cyclone Hazard Frequency and Distribution data set. In order to more accurately reflect the confidence associated with the data and procedures, the potential mortality estimate range is classified into deciles, 10 classes of an approximately equal number of grid cells, providing a relative estimate of cyclone-based mortality risks.

The layer can be viewed in Worldview/GIBS and the data can be downloaded from the [Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC)](http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/data/set/ndh-cyclone-mortality-risks-distribution).

### Cyclone Hazard: Proportional Economic Risk
The Cyclone Hazard: Economic Risk layer indicates the the proportional economic impacts of global cyclone hazard  for the period 1981-2000. The information displayed in Worldview/Global Imagery Browse Services (GIBS) reflects the decile within which the risk lies, ranging from low to high economic risk: 1st - 4th, 5th - 7th, 8th - 10th decile.

Global Cyclone Proportional Economic Loss Risk Deciles is a 2.5 minute grid (4.5 km at the equator) of cyclone hazard economic loss as proportions of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per analytical unit. Estimates of GDP at risk are based on regional economic loss rates derived from historical records of the Emergency Events Database (EM-DAT). Loss rates are weighted by the hazard's frequency and distribution. The vulnerability weights are based on historical economic losses in previous disasters. The economic loss risks are applied to GDP per unit area exposure to obtain economic loss risks. The weights are an aggregate index relative to losses within each region and country wealth class (classifications based on 2000 GDP) over the 20-year period from 1981 –2000. This index is then normalized by GDP.The methodology of Sachs et al. (2003) is followed to determine baseline estimates of GDP per grid cell. To better reflect the confidence surrounding the data and procedures, the range of proportionalities is classified into deciles, 10 classes of an approximately equal number of grid cells of increasing risk.

The layer can be viewed in Worldview/GIBS and the data can be downloaded from the [Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC)](http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/data/set/ndh-cyclone-proportional-economic-loss-risk-deciles).
