### Drought Hazard
The Drought Hazard layer indicates the relative distribution and frequency of drought hazard. Global Drought Hazard Frequency and Distribution is a 2.5 minute grid based upon the International Research Institute for Climate Prediction's (IRI) Weighted Anomaly of Standardized Precipitation (WASP). Utilizing average monthly precipitation data from 1980 through 2000 at a resolution of 2.5 degrees, WASP assesses the precipitation deficit or surplus over a three month temporal window that is weighted by the magnitude of the seasonal cyclic variation in precipitation. The three months' averages are derived from the precipitation data and the median rainfall for the 21 year period is calculated for each grid cell. Grid cells where the three month running average of precipitation is less than 1 mm per day are excluded. Drought events are identified when the magnitude of a monthly precipitation deficit is less than or equal to 50 percent of its longterm median value for three or more consecutive months. Grid cells are then divided into 10 classes having an approximately equal number of grid cells. Higher grid cell values denote higher frequencies of drought occurrences. This data set is the result of collaboration among the Columbia University Center for Hazards and Risk Research (CHRR), Columbia University International Research Institute for Climate Prediction (IRI), and Columbia University Center for International Earth Science Information Network (CIESIN).

References: [doi:10.7927/H4VX0DFT](https://dx.doi.org/10.7927/H4VX0DFT)

### Drought Hazard: Mortality Risk
The Drought Hazard: Mortality Risk layer indicates the global drought mortality risks and distribution  for the period 1981-2000. The information displayed in Worldview/GIBS reflects the decile within which the risk lies, ranging from low to high mortality risk: 1st - 4th, 5th - 7th, 8th - 10th decile.

Global Drought Mortality Risks and Distribution is a 2.5 minute grid (4.5km at the equator) of global drought mortality risks. Gridded Population of the World, Version 3 (GPWv3) data provide a baseline estimation of population per grid cell from which to estimate potential mortality risks due to drought hazard. Mortality loss estimates per hazard event are calculated using regional, hazard-specific mortality records of the Emergency Events Database (EM-DAT) that span the 20 years between 1981 and 2000. Data regarding the frequency and distribution of drought hazard are obtained from the Global Drought Hazard Frequency and Distribution data set. In order to more accurately reflect the confidence associated with the data and procedures, the potential mortality estimate range is classified into deciles, 10 classes of increasing risk with an approximately equal number of grid cells per class, producing a relative estimate of drought-based mortality risks.

The layer can be viewed in Worldview/GIBS and the data can be downloaded from the [Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC)](http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/data/set/ndh-drought-mortality-risks-distribution).

### Drought Hazard: Proportional Economic Risk
The Drought Hazard: Economic Risk layer indicates the proportional economic impacts of global drought hazard for the period 1981-2000. The information displayed in Worldview/GIBS reflects the decile within which the risk lies, ranging from low to high economic risk: 1st - 4th, 5th - 7th, 8th - 10th decile.

Global Drought Proportional Economic Loss Risk Deciles is a 2.5 minute grid of drought hazard economic loss as proportions of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per analytical unit. Estimates of GDP at risk are based on regional economic loss rates derived from historical records of the Emergency Events Database (EM-DAT). Loss rates are weighted by the hazard's frequency and distribution. The vulnerability weights are based on historical economic losses in previous disasters. The economic loss risks are applied to GDP per unit area exposure to obtain economic loss risks. The weights are an aggregate index relative to losses within each region and country wealth class (classifications based on 2000 GDP) over the 20-year period from 1981 –2000. This index is then normalized by GDP. The methodology of Sachs et al. (2003) is followed to determine baseline estimates of GDP per grid cell. To better reflect the confidence surrounding the data and procedures, the range of proportionalities is classified into deciles, 10 classes of an approximately equal number of grid cells of increasing risk.

The layer can be viewed in Worldview/GIBS and the data can be downloaded from the [Socioeconomic Data and Applications Center (SEDAC)](http://sedac.ciesin.columbia.edu/data/set/ndh-drought-proportional-economic-loss-risk-deciles).
