The OMPS Aerosol Index layer indicates the presence of ultraviolet (UV)-absorbing particles in the air (aerosols) such as desert dust and soot particles in the atmosphere; it is related to both the thickness of the aerosol layer located in the atmosphere and to the height of the layer. The Aerosol Index is a unitless range from < 0 to >= 5, where 5 indicates heavy concentrations of aerosols that could reduce visibility or impact human health such as dust storms or biomass burning smoke located in the lower troposphere (1-3 km). The Aerosol Index layer is useful for identifying and tracking the long-range transport of volcanic ash from volcanic eruptions, smoke from wildfires or biomass burning events and dust from desert dust storms, even tracking over clouds and areas of snow and ice. For Aerosol Index values higher than 5, use the Aerosol Index (PyroCumuloNimbus) layer from Suomi NPP/OMPS. Larger aerosol index values between 5 and 10 usually indicate dense smoke from intensely burning fires that reach higher in the troposphere. Once the aerosol index gets above 10, the smoke has likely been produced from a pyrocumulonimbus event, with dense smoke lofted into the upper troposphere and, often, into the stratosphere.

The OMPS Aerosol Index layer is a science parameter of the Ozone Mapping and Profiler Suite (OMPS)/ National Polar orbiting Partnership (NPP) (OMPS-NPP) L2 NM Aerosol Index swath orbital V2 available from the OMPS Nadir-Mapper instrument on the Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite. The aerosol index is derived from normalized radiances using 2 wavelength pairs at 340 and 378.5 nm. The sensor resolution is 50 km, imagery resolution is 2 km, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: [GES DISC - OMPS_NPP_NMMIEAI_L2: OMPS-NPP L2 NM Aerosol Index swath orbital V2](https://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/datasets/OMPS_NPP_NMMIEAI_L2_2/summary)
