The Brightness Temperature Night (Daily, 12.05 μm) layer displays brightness temperature in Kelvin (K). Brightness temperature is used to identify the presence of clouds (and some absorbing aerosols) in the atmospheric column, which usually induce a reduction of the brightness temperature compared to clear sky conditions. The amplitude of this reduction increases as cloud altitude increases (for a given optical depth) and as effective emissivity (or optical depth) increases for a given altitude.

This layer is based on the CAL_IIR_L2_Swath-Standard-V4-51, the CALIPSO Infrared Imaging Radiometer (IIR) Level 2 Swath, Version 4-51 data product. Data for this product was collected using the CALIPSO IIR instrument. This product contains emissivity and cloud particle size data assigned to IIR pixels on a 1 km grid centered on the lidar track.

The Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observations (CALIPSO) satellite was launched on April 28, 2006, to study the impact of clouds and aerosols on the Earth's radiation budget and climate. The CALIPSO satellite comprises three instruments: Cloud-Aerosol Lidar with Orthogonal Polarization (CALIOP), Infrared Imaging Radiometer (IIR), and Wide Field Camera (WFC). CALIPSO is a joint satellite mission between NASA and the French Agency CNES (Centre national d'études spatiales).

References: CAL_IIR_L2_Swath-Standard-V4_51 [doi:10.5067/IIR/CALIPSO/CAL_IIR_L2_Swath-Standard-V4-51](https://doi.org/10.5067/IIR/CALIPSO/CAL_IIR_L2_Swath-Standard-V4-51)