The VIIRS Cirrus Reflectance (Visible & NIR) layer is a quantitative measure of the portion of reflected and scattered solar light in the visible and near-IR spectral region by the upper level cirrus clouds. This product is directly usable for removing cirrus effects in VIIRS images for all bands below 1 micron (M1 – M7). This product can also be useful for climate related research, such as the study of aircraft contrails and contrail-induced cirrus clouds. This product is a continuation to the multi-year NASA EOS Terra and Aqua MODIS cirrus reflectance data products with significant improvements. The improvements are made possible because of more sensitive detectors and better instrumentation for VIIRS in comparison with the previous generation of MODIS instruments.

The VIIRS Cirrus Reflectance (Visible & NIR) layer is available from the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite (CLDCR_L2_VIIRS_SNPP) for the daytime overpass. The sensor/algorithm resolution is 750 m at nadir, imagery resolution is 750 m at nadir, and the temporal resolution is daily. Resolution is coarser toward both the left and the right edges of an imaging swath.

Consult the [NASA VIIRS Suomi-NPP Level-2 Cirrus Reflectance Product User Guide](https://ladsweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/api/v2/content/archives/Document%20Archive/Science%20Data%20Product%20Documentation/VIIRS_Cirrus_Refl_User_Guide_Oct_2020.pdf) for additional information.

References: CLDCR_L2_VIIRS_SNPP.001 [doi:10.5067/VIIRS/CLDCR_L2_VIIRS_SNPP.001](https://doi.org/10.5067/VIIRS/CLDCR_L2_VIIRS_SNPP.001)

