The Nighttime Imagery (Day/Night Band) layer shows regions of the Earth at roughly midnight local time for the selected date. The image is in grayscale. Terrestrial features illuminated by moonlight include clouds, atmospheric gravity waves, sea ice, and snow cover. Other light sources that may be visible are city lights, lightning, auroras, fires, gas flares, and fishing fleets.

The composite image for a day is stitched from ~14 orbits of a sun-synchronous satellite, traveling from north to south (descending) when on the nighttime side of the Earth. For each orbit, image values are scaled against other values in the same orbit so that a histogram of all values in an orbit is approximately uniform. This histogram equalization improves contrast across the large range of values in the image. A side-effect of this process is that the image generally appears overall brightest at the new moon instead of the full moon, as may be expected. For more details, see the documentation for [SatPy](https://satpy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/api/satpy.composites.viirs.html#satpy.composites.viirs.HistogramDNB) and [Polar2Grid](https://www.ssec.wisc.edu/software/polar2grid/viirs_day_night_band.html).

Due to the per-orbit scaling, this is a qualitative product intended to be used strictly for image display purposes. Furthermore, pixel values for different dates should not be directly compared, as the scaling is not normalized across time. For a quantitative product that can be compared to itself across different dates, see the "Black Marble Nighttime At Sensor Radiance" layer.

The Nighttime Imagery (Day/Night Band) layer is available from the VIIRS instrument aboard the joint NASA/NOAA NOAA-20 satellite at a daily temporal resolution. The VIIRS Day/Night Band (DNB) sensor resolution is 750 m at nadir and the imagery resolution is 1km.

References: VJ102DNB [doi:10.5067/VIIRS/VJ102DNB.021](https://doi.org/10.5067/VIIRS/VJ102DNB.021); VJ103DNB [doi:10.5067/VIIRS/VJ103DNB.021](https://doi.org/10.5067/VIIRS/VJ103DNB.021)