The GeoColor RGB (10 minute, Metesat Third Generation (MTG), 0 degree) layer is a visualisation that combines several satellite images with a static map, is available every 10 minutes, and is centered at 0 degrees. For the daytime part of the full disk, the True Color RGB provides natural colors from the Earth and atmosphere during the daytime. The channels sensitive to the red, green and blue visible lights are visualized in the respective (human eye) color beams. This results in realistic colors that imitate how the human eye might see the scene. Before creating the RGB, the effect of the Rayleigh scattering is removed from each band to prevent the RGB from being blurry. Aerosols are better seen in this RGB than in the other shortwave standard RGBs, as the scattering effect is stronger at shorter wavelengths. A special method is also applied to the FCI's green band to more precisely match the vegetated and forest areas.

For the nighttime, FCI IR channel (10.5µm) and the fog difference (10.5µm - 3.8µm) are used to identify ice and liquid water clouds, shown in whitish and bluish colors, respectively. They are partially transparent and placed on the NASA Black Marble static background. Note that the Black Marble is a static layer, and it doesn't reflect the actual conditions of the city lights.

GeoColor was first developed for GOES-R series satellites at the Cooperative Institute for Research in the Atmosphere (CIRA) and the STAR Regional and Mesoscale Meteorology Branch (RAMMB).

This imagery has been made available through an API service of [GeoColour RGB - MTG - 0 degree](https://data.eumetsat.int/product/EO:EUM:DAT:0913) provided by the European Organisation for the Exploitation of Meteorological Satellites ([EUMETSAT](http://www.eumetsat.int/)). Please provide credit to EUMETSAT and NASA when this imagery is used.
