### MODIS (Terra and Aqua) Combined Value-Added Aerosol Optical Depth
Temporal Coverage: 19 April 2017 - present

The MODIS (Terra and Aqua) Combined Value-Added Aerosol Optical Depth layer is a value-added layer based on MODIS Level 2 aerosol products. The layer can give a quick, synoptic view of the level of aerosol in the atmosphere.. MODIS Aerosol Optical Depth (or Aerosol Optical Thickness) layer indicates the level at which particles in the air (aerosols) prevent light from traveling through the atmosphere. Aerosols absorb and scatter incoming sunlight, which reduces visibility and increases the optical depth. An optical depth of less than 0.1 indicates a clear sky with maximum visibility, and a value of 1 indicates the presence of aerosols so dense that people would have difficulty seeing the Sun. Aerosols have an effect on human health, weather and the climate. Sources of aerosols include pollution from factories, smoke from fires, dust from dust storms, sea salts, and volcanic ash and smog. Aerosols compromise human health when inhaled by people with asthma or other respiratory illnesses. Aerosols also have an affect on the weather and climate by cooling or warming the Earth, helping or preventing clouds from forming.

This level 3 gridded product is designed for quantitative applications including aerosol data assimilation and model validation. This layer is useful for aerosol forecasting communities such as the United States Navy Fleet Numerical Meteorology and Oceanography Center (FNMOC), National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), European Centre for Medium-Range Weather Forecasts (ECMWF), National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) Global Modeling Assimilation Office (GMAO), University research groups and support for field/aircraft campaigns.

The MODIS Combined Value-Added Aerosol Optical Depth layer is a near real-time layer and available as a combined Terra satellite and Aqua satellite layer (MCDAODHD). The sensor resolution is 0.5 degrees, imagery resolution is 2 km, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: MCDAODHD NRT [doi:10.5067/MODIS/MCDAODHD.NRT.061](https://doi.org/10.5067/MODIS/MCDAODHD.NRT.061) [NASA Earthdata - NRT Value-Added MODIS AOD Product](https://earthdata.nasa.gov/learn/articles/nrt-value-added-modis-aerosol-optical-depth-product-available)

### MAIAC Aerosol Optical Depth
Temporal coverage: 28 September 2019 - present

The MAIAC Aerosol Optical Depth layer is from the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) combined Terra and Aqua Multi-Angle Implementation of Atmospheric Correction (MAIAC) Land Aerosol Optical Depth level 2 product.

Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) is a vertically integrated extinction by aerosol particles suspended in the atmosphere. Aerosols absorb and scatter incoming sunlight, which reduces visibility and increases the optical depth. Aerosols affect human health, weather and climate. At present, MAIAC is the only algorithm which provides high quality 1km aerosol information resolving fine scales of urban pollution, smoke from active fires, including small fires, and dust storms. A specialized smoke/dust detection helps MAIAC retain aerosol retrievals for most active fires which are frequently masked as clouds by the standard operational algorithms. Because of good accuracy over all land surface types including bright and urban surfaces, MAIAC AOD has been widely used in the air quality applications worldwide. Due to high 1km spatial resolution and reliable cloud detection, MAIAC provides data in partly cloudy conditions where standard coarse resolution products have no retrievals. The significantly increased coverage is one of MAIAC’s attractive features for the air quality applications. MAIAC AOD, smoke plume height, column water vapor, detected snow, sub-pixel snow fraction and grain size, spectral surface reflectance and BRDF data are of considerable interest to the air quality analysis, aerosol forecasting and hazard assessment, data assimilation systems of climate models, field campaign support and other applications.

The MAIAC Combined Aerosol Optical Depth layer is a near real-time layer and available as a combined Terra satellite and Aqua satellite layer (MCD19A2). The sensor resolution is 1 km, imagery resolution is 1 km, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: MCD19A2N NRT [doi:10.5067/MODIS/MCD19A2N.NRT.006](https://doi.org/10.5067/MODIS/MCD19A2N.NRT.006)
