### MODIS (Terra and Aqua) Flood (2-Day, 3-Day)
Temporal coverage: 1 January 2021 - present

The MODIS Near Real Time (NRT) Global Flood Product imagery layers provide daily maps of flooding globally. They are derived from the NRT MOD09 (Surface Reflectance) datasets from the MODIS instrument aboard the Terra and Aqua satellites. The imagery layers are provided for 3 compositing periods (1-day, 2-day, and 3-day). For each composite period, water detections for all swaths (Terra and Aqua) over the compositing period (1, 2, or 3 days) are accumulated, and if the total exceeds the required threshold (1, 2, and 3 observations, respectively), the pixel is marked as water. (Note: 1-day product not yet available in Worldview)

The purpose of these time-composites is to provide useful coverage in conditions of varying cloudiness, because clouds are problematic for water detection: clouds block detection of surface water, and may introduce cloud-shadow false-positives (because shadows are spectrally similar to water, in the 250 m bands used for this product). To minimize these impacts and more rigorously identify water, multiple water observations (in the 2 and 3-day products) are very effective at eliminating cloud-shadow false-positives (because cloud shadows usually move from one observation to the next), although some may still persist (fewer in the 3-day than in the 2-day). Water detections matching maps of likely terrain shadow extent are masked out, and remaining water detections are then compared against a global static surface water map (MOD44W, collection 5 version) to determine if the detected water is flood or expected surface water, and is coded appropriately in the data product.

Users are advised to compare the flood product against the contributing MODIS reflectance imagery (such as 7-2-1 Corrected Reflectance; search for "721" after clicking "Add Layers"), to ensure reported flood areas do not correspond to areas of cloud shadow. This is particularly important for the 1-day product, where multiple water observations are not required to flag a pixel as water. For the 1-day product, the Terra and Aqua images for the product date should be reviewed. If concerned about potential false-positives in the 2- or 3-day products, or if an area of reported flood looks unusual, the user is advised to also check the contributing imagery for earlier days, for those products.  For the 2-day, the images for the previous date should also be examined. And for the 3-day, include the two preceding days. (Note: 1-day product not yet available in Worldview)

Despite the application of terrain shadow masks, false-positives will be present in mountainous areas, although mostly in local winter. Such false-positives are easy to identify visually as they reflect the topography -- a pattern not typical for actual on-the-ground flooding.  Due to the product resolution, and the nature of flooding in mountains (where flooding usually does not persist on the ground for long periods of time because of the topographic drainage potential), this product is unlikely to detect significant flooding in mountainous regions. In general, its 250 m spatial resolution will limit the product's ability to detect small-scale flooding, even if locally important. Flood water that does not remain in place for a few observation cycles is also not likely to be reported; imagery from MODIS Terra is acquired at approximately 10:30 AM local time, and from MODIS Aqua at about 1:30 PM local time. Areas with significant tree canopy and urban areas are also problematic, as tree canopies will obscure water on the ground, and dry building roofs will dilute the water signal from surrounding streets.

#### Sensor/Image Resolution
Nominal equatorial resolution is ~232 m per pixel, decreasing toward the poles (~116 m at 60 degrees latitude). Note the higher apparent resolution towards the poles is simply an artifact of the lat/lon (geographic) projection used, and not intrinsic to the data.

#### Spatial Coverage
Non-polar global land areas (below 70 degrees latitude), comprising 223 10x10 degree tiles (see Figure 4 in [User Guide](https://earthdata.nasa.gov/files/MCDWD_UserGuide_RevA_08Mar2021.pdf) for included tiles).

#### Frequency
One product per day, per tile. During the day, data products are updated as NRT MOD09 data are received (an initial product may be updated if additional intersecting swath data is later received).

[Dataset doi:10.5067/MODIS/MCDWD_L3_NRT.061](https://doi.org/10.5067/MODIS/MCDWD_L3_NRT.061)
