The MAIAC Aerosol Optical Depth layer is from the the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) combined Terra and Aqua Multi-Angle Implementation of Atmospheric Correction (MAIAC) Land Aerosol Optical Depth level 2 product.

Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) is a vertically integrated extinction by aerosol particles suspended in the atmosphere. Aerosols absorb and scatter incoming sunlight, which reduces visibility and increases the optical depth. Aerosols affect human health, weather and climate. At present, MAIAC is the only algorithm which provides high quality 1km aerosol information resolving fine scales of urban pollution, smoke from active fires, including small fires, and dust storms. A specialized smoke/dust detection helps MAIAC retain aerosol retrievals for most active fires which are frequently masked as clouds by the standard operational algorithms. Because of good accuracy over all land surface types including bright and urban surfaces, MAIAC AOD has been widely used in the air quality applications worldwide. Due to high 1km spatial resolution and reliable cloud detection, MAIAC provides data in partly cloudy conditions where standard coarse resolution products have no retrievals. The significantly increased coverage is one of MAIAC’s attractive features for the air quality applications. MAIAC AOD, smoke plume height, column water vapor, detected snow, sub-pixel snow fraction and grain size, spectral surface reflectance and BRDF data are of considerable interest to the air quality analysis, aerosol forecasting and hazard assessment, data assimilation systems of climate models, field campaign support and other applications.

The MAIAC Combined Aerosol Optical Depth layer is a near real-time layer and available as a combined Terra satellite and Aqua satellite layer (MCD19A2). The sensor resolution is 1 km, imagery resolution is 1 km, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: [doi: 10.5067/MODIS/MCD19A2N.NRT.006](https://doi.org/10.5067/MODIS/MCD19A2N.NRT.006)
