
### At Sensor Radiance (Day/Night Band)
The At Sensor Radiance (Day/Night Band) layer is created from NASA’s Black Marble daily at-sensor top-of-atmosphere nighttime radiance product (VNP46A1). It is displayed as a grayscale image. The unit of the layer is expressed in radiance (nW/cm<sup>2</sup>sr) with log10 conversion. It is stretched up to 38 nW/cm<sup>2</sup>sr resulting in improvements in capturing city lights in more spatial detail than traditional Nighttime Imagery resampled at 0-255 (e.g., Day/Night Band, Enhanced Near Constant Contrast).

The ultra-sensitivity of the VIIRS Day/Night Band enables scientists to capture the Earth’s surface and atmosphere in low light conditions, allowing for better monitoring of both the magnitude and signature of nighttime phenomena. These images are also useful for assessing anthropogenic sources of light emissions under varying illumination conditions. For instance, during partial to full moon conditions, the layer can identify the location and features of clouds and other natural terrestrial features such as sea ice and snow cover. This layer enables temporal observations to be consistent and comparable, especially in urban regions, regardless of moonlit conditions. As such, the layer is particularly useful for detecting city lights, lightning, auroras, fires, gas flares, and fishing fleets.

The At Sensor Radiance (Day/Night Band) layer is available in near real-time from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) aboard the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite. The sensor resolution is 750 m at nadir, imagery resolution is 500 m, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: [VNP46A1](https://blackmarble.gsfc.nasa.gov/VNP46A1.html); [Black Marble User Guide](https://viirsland.gsfc.nasa.gov/PDF/VIIRS_BlackMarbleUserGuide_V1.1.pdf); [Black Marble ATBD](https://viirsland.gsfc.nasa.gov/PDF/VIIRS_BlackMarble_ATBD_V1.1.pdf); Dataset doi:[10.5067/VIIRS/VNP46A1.001](https://ladsweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/missions-and-measurements/products/VNP46A1/); Román, M. O., Z. Wang, Q. Sun, V. Kalb, S. D. Miller, A. Molthan, L. Schultz, J. Bell, E. C. Stokes, B. Pandey, K. C. Seto, D. Hall, T. Oda, R. E. Wolfe, G. Lin, N. Golpayegani, S. Devadiga, C. Davidson, S. Sarkar, C. Praderas, J. Schmaltz, R. Boller, J. Stevens, O. M. Ramos Gonzalez, E. Padilla, J. Alonso, Y. Detrés, R. Armstrong, I. Miranda, Y. Conte, N. Marrero, K. MacManus, T. Esch, and E. J. Masuoka. 2018. "NASA’s Black Marble nighttime lights product suite." Remote Sensing of Environment 210 113-143 [doi:10.1016/j.rse.2018.03.017](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2018.03.017); Lee, T., S. Miller, F. Turk, C. Schueler, R. Julian, S. Deyo, P. Dills, and S. Wang, 2006: The NPOESS VIIRS Day/Night Visible Sensor. Bull. Amer. Meteor. Soc., 87, 191–199, [doi: 10.1175/BAMS-87-2-191](https://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/abs/10.1175/BAMS-87-2-191); Román, M. O. and Stokes, E. C. (2015), Holidays in lights: Tracking cultural patterns in demand for energy services. Earth's Future, 3: 182–205. [doi:10.1002/2014EF000285](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2014EF000285/full); [The Lights of London. NASA Earth Observatory](https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/IOTD/view.php?id=78674); [Out of the Blue and Into the Black. NASA Earth Observatory](https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/IntotheBlack/).

### Nighttime Imagery (Day/Night Band, Enhanced Near Constant Contrast)
Temporal coverage: 3 December 2016 - present

**29 June 2020 Notice**: High latitude artifacts have been identified and fixed for 26 June 2020 onward. It is expected that the imagery will be reprocessed back to the beginning of the mission. [Read more about the issue](https://landweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/NPP_QA/displayCase.cgi?esdt=NPP_VDNE&caseNum=PM_NPP_VDNE_20178&caseLocation=cases_data&action=small).

---

The Nighttime Imagery (Day/Night Band, Enhanced Near Constant Contrast) layer shows the Earth’s surface and atmosphere using a sensor designed to capture low-light emission sources, under varying illumination conditions. It is displayed as a grey-scale image. Sources of illumination include both natural and anthropogenic sources of light emissions. Lunar reflection can be used to highlight the location and features of clouds and other terrestrial features such as sea ice and snow cover when there is partial to full moon conditions. When there is no moonlight, natural and anthropogenic night time light emissions are highlighted such as city lights, lightning, auroras, fires, gas flares, and fishing fleets. This layer is useful for showing patterns of human activity and energy behaviors such as cities and highways, the holiday periods, the tracking of shipping and fishing fleets at night and, the burning of waste natural gas (gas flares) from on and off shore oil/gas production sites.

The VIIRS Nighttime Imagery (Day/Night Band, Enhanced Near Constant Contrast) layer is available from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) on the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite. The sensor resolution is 750 m at nadir, imagery resolution is 500 m, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: Lee, T., S. Miller, F. Turk, C. Schueler, R. Julian, S. Deyo, P. Dills, and S. Wang, 2006: The NPOESS VIIRS Day/Night Visible Sensor. Bull. Amer. Meteor. Soc., 87, 191–199, [doi: 10.1175/BAMS-87-2-191](https://journals.ametsoc.org/doi/abs/10.1175/BAMS-87-2-191); [The Lights of London. NASA Earth Observatory](https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/IOTD/view.php?id=78674); [Out of the Blue and Into the Black. NASA Earth Observatory](https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/IntotheBlack/); Román, M. O. and Stokes, E. C. (2015), Holidays in lights: Tracking cultural patterns in demand for energy services. Earth's Future, 3: 182–205. [doi:10.1002/2014EF000285](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/2014EF000285/full)

### Black Marble
The Black Marble layer and the Black Marble – Nighttime Lights only layer is a nighttime view of the Earth, showing visible light emanating from anthropogenic sources such as city lights and other human-driven patterns. The Black Marble layer is an improvement over the "Earth At Night 2012: VIIRS City Lights 2012" layer, providing a look at anthropogenic light sources only, stripping out other nighttime light sources such as auroras, airglow and reflected moonlight from desert, snow, and other natural features. The layers are a composite of data from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) instrument on board the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite. The image composite was assembled from clear, cloud free images for 2012 and 2016. The Black Marble layer is a base layer which includes the land masses, the Black Marble – Nighttime Lights only layer overlay only shows the nighttime lights.

Currently, the Black Marble imagery is available only as a single snapshot in time for 2012 and 2016. The sensor resolution is 750 m and the image resolution is 500 m. The imagery can be visualized in Worldview/Global Imagery Browse Services (GIBS).

References: [NASA Earth Observatory: Night Light Maps Open Up New Applications](https://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/NightLights)

### Earth at Night 2012: VIIRS City Lights 2012
The Earth at Night layer is a night time view of the Earth, showing visible light emanating from sources such as city lights, gas flares, wildfires, auroras and reflected moonlight. The image is a composite of data from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) instrument on board the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar-orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite. The image composite was assembled from clear, cloud free images from 9 days in April 2012 and 13 days in October 2012.

The Earth at Night imagery is available only as a single snapshot in time. The sensor resolution is 750 m and the image resolution is 500 m. The imagery can be visualized in Worldview/Global Imagery Browse Services (GIBS). The imagery can be downloaded from [NASA Earth Observatory/Visible Earth](https://visibleearth.nasa.gov/view.php?id=79765).

References: [Visible Earth - Night Lights 2012 - Flat Map](https://visibleearth.nasa.gov/view.php?id=79765)
