The VIIRS Deep Blue Aerosol Angstrom Exponent layer can be used to provide additional information related to the aerosol particle size over land and ocean (larger the exponent, the smaller the particle size). Values < 1 suggest optical dominance of coarse particles (e.g. dust) and values > 1 suggest optical dominance of fine particles (e.g. smoke).

Ångström exponent over land is defined between 412-470 nm for 'bright' surfaces, and 470-670 nm for 'dark' surfaces. The combined Ångström exponent over land and ocean are for those retrieval pixels passing quality assurance tests. This layer is created from the Deep Blue (DB) algorithm over land and the Satellite Ocean Aerosol Retrieval (SOAR) algorithm over water to determine atmospheric aerosol loading for day time cloud-free snow-free scenes. This data product is designed to facilitate continuity in the aerosol record provided by the Deep Blue aerosol project for other sensors including the Sea-viewing Wide Field-of-view Sensor (SeaWiFS) and Terra/Aqua Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometers (MODIS).

The VIIRS Deep Blue Aerosol Ångström Exponent layer is available from the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite (`AERDB_L2_VIIRS_SNPP_NRT`) for the daytime overpass. The sensor/algorithm resolution is 6 km at nadir, imagery resolution is 2 km at nadir, and the temporal resolution is daily. Resolution is much coarser out toward the edge of the swath.

References: [doi: 10.5067/VIIRS/AERDB\_L2\_VIIRS\_SNPP\_NRT.001](https://doi.org/10.5067/VIIRS/AERDB_L2_VIIRS_SNPP_NRT.001)
