**29 June 2020 Notice**: High latitude artifacts have been identified and fixed for 26 June 2020 onward. It is expected that the imagery will be reprocessed back to the beginning of the mission. [Read more about the issue](https://landweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/NPP_QA/displayCase.cgi?esdt=NPP_VDNE&caseNum=PM_NPP_VDNE_20178&caseLocation=cases_data&ver=C001).

---

The Nighttime Imagery (Day/Night Band, Enhanced Near Constant Contrast) layer shows the Earth’s surface and atmosphere using a sensor designed to capture low-light emission sources, under varying illumination conditions. It is displayed as a grayscale image. Sources of illumination include both natural and anthropogenic sources of light emissions. Lunar reflection can be used to highlight the location and features of clouds and other terrestrial features such as sea ice and snow cover when there is partial to full moon conditions. When there is no moonlight, natural and anthropogenic night time light emissions are highlighted such as city lights, lightning, upper-atmospheric gravity waves, auroras, fires, gas flares, and fishing fleets. This layer is useful for displaying cities and highways at night, the tracking of shipping and fishing fleets, as well as fires and the burning of waste natural gas (gas flares) from on and offshore oil/gas production sites.

The Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) Nighttime Imagery (Day/Night Band, Enhanced Near Constant Contrast) layer is mainly a qualitative product and should be strictly used for image display purposes. Each VIIRS Level 1B scan (6-minutes in total length) is individually processed and normalized based on a static set of values that predict the viewing and illumination geometries of each pixel. Because of the confounding factors that influence a VIIRS scan from one night to the next (e.g., more/less cloudy days, with more/less moon illumination conditions), individual ENCC pixel-based values are not comparable over time. For accurate time-series detection (e.g., monitoring short-term increases or reductions in artificial lights at night), users are referred to NASA’s Black Marble standard product suite (VNP46A1/VNP46A2 for Suomi NPP). These standard products correct for short-term variations in lunar and environmental conditions. They also provide the necessary quality assurance (QA) flags and additional layers to identify and isolate potential sources of noise and measurement error (e.g., clouds, moon-light, and snow contaminated pixels) and variations (e.g. lunar and view angles and view time) in a statistically robust fashion.

The current ENCC Nighttime Imagery layer is available from the VIIRS instrument aboard the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite at a daily temporal resolution. The VIIRS Day/Night Band (DNB) sensor resolution is 750 m at nadir and the ENCC imagery layer’s gridded resolution is 15 arc-second (approximately 500 meters at the equator).

References: Hillger, D., Seaman, C., Liang, C., Miller, S., Lindsey, D., & Kopp, T. (2014). Suomi NPP VIIRS imagery evaluation. Journal of Geophysical Research: Atmospheres, 119(11), 6440-6455, [doi:10.1002/2013JD021170](https://doi.org/10.1002/2013JD021170).

Román, M. O., Wang, Z., Sun, Q., Kalb, V., Miller, S. D., Molthan, A., ... & Masuoka, E. J. (2018). NASA's Black Marble nighttime lights product suite. Remote Sensing of Environment, 210, 113-143, [doi:10.1016/j.rse.2018.03.017](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.rse.2018.03.017).