### Surface Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) (NBAR, Global, Annual | Monthly, V3.0)
Temporal coverage: Annual: December 2008 - December 2010; Monthly: December 2008 - November 2011

The Surface Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) (NBAR, Global, Version 3.0) Annual and Monthly layers are a composite of images from the  Landsat 7 Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus (ETM+) satellite and Landsat 5 Thematic Mapper (TM) satellite produced by the Web Enabled Landsat Data (WELD) project. Normalized Difference Vegetation Index is a measure of the greenness and health of vegetation. The index is calculated based on how much red and near-infrared light is reflected by plant leaves. The layer is created from Landsat Bands 3 and 4 Nadir BRDF (Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function) Adjusted Reflectance (NBAR). Areas with a lot of green leaf growth, indicates the presence of chlorophyll which reflects more infrared light and less visible light, are depicted in dark green colors, areas with some green leaf growth are in light greens, and  areas with little to no vegetation growth are depicted in tan colors.

The sensor resolution is 30 m, the imagery resolution is 31.25 m and for the annual layer, the temporal availability is December 2008 - December 2010, where the annual composite is from the preceding year’s December through the current year’s November. For example, for the year 2008, the product includes data from 1 December 2007 through 30 November 2008. For the monthly layer, the temporal availability is December 2008 - November 2011.

References: [Global Web-Enabled Landsat Data](http://globalmonitoring.sdstate.edu/projects/weldglobal/gweld.html); [Web-Enabled Landsat Data (WELD) Projects](https://landsat.usgs.gov/web-enabled-landsat-data-weld-projects)
