The Reflectance (Nadir BRDF Adjusted, v1.5) imagery layer from Landsat 8/OLI is a true-color or natural color image because this combination of wavelengths is similar to what the human eye would see. It consists of natural-looking images of land surface, oceanic and atmospheric features. The Reflectance (Nadir BRDF Adjusted, v1.5) imagery layer from Landsat 8/OLI provides 30m Nadir Bidirectional Reflectance Distribution Function (BRDF)-Adjusted Reflectance (NBAR) and is derived from the joint NASA/USGS Landsat 8 Operational Land Imager (OLI) data product through the Harmonized Landsat and Sentinel-2 (HLS) project.

The HLS project provides consistent surface reflectance data from the Operational Land Imager (OLI) aboard the joint NASA/USGS Landsat 8 satellite and the Multi-Spectral Instrument (MSI) aboard the European Union’s Copernicus Sentinel-2A and Sentinel-2B satellites. The combined measurements between Landsat 8, Sentinel-2A, and Sentinel-2B enable global observations of the land every 2-3 days at 30 meter (m) spatial resolution. The HLS project uses a set of algorithms to obtain seamless products from OLI and MSI that include atmospheric correction, cloud and cloud-shadow masking, spatial co-registration and common gridding, illumination and view angle normalization, and spectral bandpass adjustment.

The Reflectance (Nadir BRDF Adjusted, v1.5) imagery layer from Landsat 8/OLI product (L30) is available through the HLS project from the Operational Land Imager (OLI) aboard the Landsat 8. The sensor resolution is 30 m, imagery resolution is 30 m, and the temporal resolution is daily with a 16 day revisit time. The imagery is available in Worldview/GIBS approximately 2 - 4 days after satellite overpass. There is a separate combined Sentinel 2A and Sentinel 2B imagery layer available.

Note: PROVISIONAL - The Harmonized Landsat and Sentinel-2 (HLS) data have not been validated for their science quality and should not be used in science research or applications.

References: [HLSL30 v015: HLS Landsat-8 OLI Surface Reflectance and TOA Brightness Daily Global 30 m](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/products/hlsl30v015/); [Harmonized Landsat Sentinel-2 (HLS) Product User Guide](https://lpdaac.usgs.gov/documents/878/HLS_User_Guide_V15_provisional.pdf)
