**4 May 2021 Notice**: The MODIS instrument aboard the Terra satellite experienced a Printed Wire Assembly (PWA) failure on 5 October 2020. This has resulted in a reduction in the overall Terra daytime coverage and many of the MODIS/Terra imagery layers have a slightly jagged appearance at the poles. This issue will affect land daytime MODIS/Terra products that primarily rely on the Reflective Solar Bands (RSB) (i.e. visible bands) indefinitely. [Learn more about the issue](https://landweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/QA_WWW/displayCase.cgi?esdt=MOD&caseNum=PM_MOD_20280&caseLocation=cases_data&type=C6).

---

The MODIS Deep Blue Aerosol Ångström Exponent layer can be used to provide additional information related to the aerosol particle size over land. This layer is created from the Deep Blue (DB) algorithm, originally developed for retrieving over desert/arid land (bright in the visible wavelengths). The Ångström exponent provides additional information on the particle size (larger the exponent, the smaller the particle size). Values < 1 suggest optical dominance of coarse particles (e.g. dust) and values > 1 suggest optical dominance of fine particles (e.g. smoke). Ångström exponent over land is defined between 412-470 nm for 'bright' surfaces, and 470-670 nm for 'dark' surfaces.

The MODIS Deep Blue Aerosol Aerosol Ångström Exponent (Land) layer is available from both the Terra (`MOD04_L2`) and Aqua (`MYD04_L2`) satellites for daytime overpasses. The sensor/algorithm resolution is 10 km at nadir, imagery resolution is 2 km at nadir, and the temporal resolution is daily. Resolution is much coarser out toward the edge of the swath.

