**4 May 2021 Notice**: The MODIS instrument aboard the Terra satellite experienced a Printed Wire Assembly (PWA) failure on 5 October 2020. This has resulted in a reduction in the overall Terra daytime coverage and many of the MODIS/Terra imagery layers have a slightly jagged appearance at the poles. This issue will affect land daytime MODIS/Terra products that primarily rely on the Reflective Solar Bands (RSB) (i.e. visible bands) indefinitely. [Learn more about the issue](https://landweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/QA_WWW/displayCase.cgi?esdt=MOD&caseNum=PM_MOD_20280&caseLocation=cases_data&type=C6).

---

The merged Dark Target/Deep Blue Aerosol Optical Depth layer provides a more global, synoptic view of aerosol optical depth over land and ocean. This layer is created from three algorithms: two “Dark Target” (DT) algorithms for retrieving (1) over ocean (dark in visible and longer wavelengths) and (2) over vegetated/dark-soiled land (dark in the visible) and the Deep Blue (DB) algorithm, originally developed for retrieving (3) over desert/arid land (bright in the visible wavelengths). Which algorithm is used for a particular location on the Earth depends on its surface cover.

The MODIS Merged DT/DB Aerosol Optical Depth (Land and Ocean) layer is available from both the Terra (`MOD04_L2`) and Aqua (`MYD04_L2`) satellites for daytime overpasses. The sensor/algorithm resolution is 10 km at nadir, the imagery resolution is 2 km at nadir, and the temporal resolution is daily. Resolution is much coarser out toward the edge of the swath.