**4 May 2021 Notice**: The MODIS instrument aboard the Terra satellite experienced a Printed Wire Assembly (PWA) failure on 5 October 2020. This has resulted in a reduction in the overall Terra daytime coverage and many of the MODIS/Terra imagery layers have a slightly jagged appearance at the poles. This issue will affect land daytime MODIS/Terra products that primarily rely on the Reflective Solar Bands (RSB) (i.e. visible bands) indefinitely. [Learn more about the issue](https://landweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/cgi-bin/QA_WWW/displayCase.cgi?esdt=MOD&caseNum=PM_MOD_20280&caseLocation=cases_data&type=C6).

---

The MODIS Normalized Difference Snow Index (NDSI) snow cover layer shows the presence of snow cover over land and water bodies as an index related to the presence of snow. NDSI snow cover is derived from the cloud free snow reflectance sensed by the MODIS instrument, and hence this layer shows presence of snow during day time and under cloud clear condition only. NDSI snow cover though could be retrieved in the valid range of  (0, 1.0) at every pixel, additional tests like surface temperature screening linked with the surface height is used for accurate detection. Snow is precipitation that forms from water vapor in the atmosphere where temperatures are below 0° Celsius. If the ground temperature is also below freezing, snow will accumulate on the ground as bright, white layer of snowpack. Snow cover reflects sunlight back into the atmosphere, helping to cool the Earth’s surface. Snowmelt is used for drinking water, water for crop irrigation, and can moisturize soil to reduce the risk of wildfire in many areas in the world. When snow melts in the spring, too much snow can cause springtime flooding.

The MODIS Snow Cover (Normalized Difference Snow Index) layer is available from both the Terra (MOD10) and Aqua (MYD10) satellites. The sensor and imagery resolution is 500 m and the temporal resolution is daily.

NOTE: We are reprocessing the entire MODIS Land imagery archive to collection 6.1 but currently the imagery is a mix of collection 6 and collection 6.1. Most of the imagery from mid-May 2021 onwards is collection 6.1 and older imagery is collection 6.

References: MOD10_L2 [doi:10.5067/MODIS/MOD10_L2.061](https://doi.org/10.5067/MODIS/MOD10_L2.061); [NASA Earth Observations - Snow Cover](https://neo.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov/view.php?datasetId=MOD10C1_M_SNOW)
