### MODIS (Terra) Vegetation Indices (rolling 8-day)
Temporal Coverage: 30 July 2016 - present

Vegetation indices are used for monitoring of vegetation conditions and can be used to identify areas undergoing land cover changes. These data may be used as input for modeling global biogeochemical and hydrologic processes and global and regional climate. These data also may be used for characterizing land surface biophysical properties and processes including primary production and land cover conversion. Vegetation indices also provide information on the health of vegetation and can assist farmers and resource managers monitor the health and development of their crops and fields over the growing season.

### MODIS rolling 8-day Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI)
The MODIS Normalized Difference Vegetation Index (NDVI) layer is a measure of the greenness and health of vegetation. The index is calculated based on how much red and near-infrared light is reflected by plant leaves. The index values range from -0.2 to 1 where higher values (0.3 to 1) indicate areas covered by green, leafy vegetation and lower values (0 to 0.3) indicate areas where there is little or no vegetation. Areas with a lot of green leaf growth, indicates the presence of chlorophyll which reflects more infrared light and less visible light, are depicted in dark green colors, areas with some green leaf growth are in light greens, and  areas with little to no vegetation growth are depicted in tan colors.

The MODIS rolling 8-day NDVI layer is available as a near real-time, rolling 8-day product (MOD13Q4N) from from the Terra satellite. It is created from a rolling 8-day land surface reflectance product, MOD09Q1N. The sensor resolution is 250 m, imagery resolution is 250 m, and the temporal resolution is an 8-day product which is updated daily.

### MODIS rolling 8-day Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI)
The MODIS Enhanced Vegetation Index (EVI) is also used as a measure of the greenness and health of vegetation. It is calculated in a similar fashion as NDVI but it corrects for distortions caused by ground cover beneath the canopy vegetation and distortions in reflected light caused by particles in the air by using the blue band to remove residual atmosphere contamination caused by smoke and sub-pixel thin cirrus clouds. The EVI is more effective in areas with large amounts of chlorophyll such as rainforests. The index values range from -0.2 to 1 where higher values (0.3 to 1) indicate areas covered by green, leafy vegetation and lower values (0 to 0.3) indicate areas where there is little or no vegetation.

The MODIS rolling 8-day EVI layer is available as a near real-time, rolling 8-day product (MOD13Q4N) from from the Terra satellite. It is created from a rolling 8-day land surface reflectance product, MOD09Q1N. The sensor resolution is 250 m, imagery resolution is 250 m, and the temporal resolution is an 8-day product which is updated daily.

References:
[NASA Earth Observatory - Measuring Vegetation](http://earthobservatory.nasa.gov/Features/MeasuringVegetation/measuring_vegetation_4.php); [NASA Earthdata - New Vegetation Indices and Surface Reflectance Products Available from LANCE](https://earthdata.nasa.gov/earth-observation-data/near-real-time/new-vegetation-indices-and-surface-reflectance-products-available-from-lance); [NASA NEO - Vegetation Index](https://neo.sci.gsfc.nasa.gov/view.php?datasetId=MOD_NDVI_M)
