The Incoming Solar Flux (Monthly, Energy Balanced and Filled) layer shows the downwelling broadband shortwave radiant energy from the sun (irradiance), transferred across a unit area in unit time (W/m<sup>-2</sup>), at the top of the atmosphere (TOA - 20 km altitude). More simply, it is the incident sunlight to Earth’s atmosphere (defined as positive). The CERES EBAF Edition 2 and 3 products use solar irradiance calculated using daily measurements provided by the [Solar Radiation and Climate Experiment (SORCE) observatory](https://lasp.colorado.edu/home/sorce/data/tsi-data/). These daily measurements are intended to reflect natural variability of the sun and account for the 11-year (sunspot) solar cycle. A mean solar constant of 1361 W/m<sup>-2</sup> is used, which differs from other CERES Edition2 and ERBE products.

The CERES Energy Balanced and Filled (EBAF) layers are derived from CERES SYN1Deg products, and provide monthly mean radiative fluxes corresponding to collection either at the Earth’s surface (EBAF-Surface) or top-of-the-atmosphere (EBAF-TOA). EBAF-products were designed for climate model evaluation, estimating the Earth's global mean energy budget, and to infer meridional heat transport. For some climate modelers, the products address the need for a net imbalance constrained to the ocean heat storage term.

The CERES Incoming Solar Flux (Monthly, Energy Balanced and Filled) layer is available from the CERES instruments on the Terra satellite. The sensor resolution is 1 degree, imagery resolution is 2 km, and the temporal resolution is monthly.

References: CERES_EBAF-Sfc_Edition4.0 [doi:10.5067/TERRA+AQUA/CERES/EBAF-SURFACE_L3B004.0](https://doi.org/10.5067/TERRA+AQUA/CERES/EBAF-SURFACE_L3B004.0)
