The Arctic Radiation-Cloud-Aerosol-Surface Interaction Experiment (ARCSIX) G-III Flight Tracks provide the locations of where the NASA LaRC G-III aircraft collected measurements to support the ARCSIX field campaign. The high-flying G-III completed 14 science flights across two deployments and was equipped with remote sensing instrumentation, including the High-Altitude Lidar Observatory (HALO), along with the Airborne Vertical Atmosphere Profiling System (AVAPS) dropsonde system. The temporal coverage includes a Spring (May 28 - June 14, 2024) and Summer (August 6 - 16, 2024) deployment.

The Arctic Radiation-Cloud-Aerosol-Surface Interaction EXperiment (ARCSIX) was a NASA field investigation aimed at quantifying the contributions of surface properties, clouds, aerosol particles, and precipitation to the Arctic summer surface radiation budget and sea ice melt during the early melt season. Based out of Greenland, ARCSIX completed two deployments from May – June 2024 and July - August 2024 and deployed multiple aircraft to achieve ARCSIX science objectives. Data were also collected at the Thule High Arctic Atmospheric Observatory (THAAO) in Pituffik, Greenland. The primary objective of ARCSIX was to enhance long-term space-based monitoring and predictive capabilities of Arctic sea ice, cloud, and aerosols by validating and improving remote sensing algorithms and model parameterizations in the Arctic. ARCSIX science questions focused on examining the impact of the predominant summer Arctic cloud types on the radiative surface energy budget, what processes control the evolution and maintenance of the predominant cloud types in the summertime Arctic, and how do the two-way interactions between surface properties and atmospheric forcings affect sea ice evolution.

Note: The following dates contain test/transit flights: 2024 May 28, 2024 June 14, and 2024 August 16.

References: ARCSIX at the ASDC, [doi:10.5067/SUBORBITAL/ARCSIX/DATA001](https://asdc.larc.nasa.gov/project/ARCSIX)


