The Radiance (Daily, V3-02) layer is created from CAL_WFC_L1_1Km-ValStage1-V3-02 data. CAL_WFC_L1_1Km-ValStage1-V3-02 data are Cloud-Aerosol Lidar and Infrared Pathfinder Satellite Observation (CALIPSO) Wide Field Camera (WFC), Level 1B 1 km Native Science data, Validated Stage 1 Version 3-02. Data collection for this product is ongoing. Version 3.02 represents a transition of the Lidar, Imaging Infrared Radiometer (IIR), and WFC processing and browse code to a new cluster computing system. No algorithm changes were introduced, and very minor changes were observed between V3.01 and V3.02 as a result of the compiler and computer architecture differences. The primary WFC Level 1B data products are calibrated radiance and bidirectional reflectance registered to an Earth-based grid centered on the Lidar ground track. During the normal operation, the WFC acquires science data only during the daylight portions of the CALIPSO orbits. The WFC Level 1B 1 km Native Science grid covers the full 61 km swath centered on the Lidar track. CALIPSO was launched on April 28, 2006 to study the impact of clouds and aerosols on the Earth's radiation budget and climate. It flies in the international A-Train constellation for coincident Earth observations. The CALIPSO satellite is comprised of three instruments, the Cloud-Aerosol LIdar with Orthogonal Polarization (CALIOP), IIR, and WFC. CALIPSO is a joint satellite mission between NASA and the French Agency, CNES.

References: CAL_WFC_L1_1Km-ValStage1-V3-02 [doi:10.5067/WFC/CALIPSO/CAL_WFC_L1_1KM-VALSTAGE1-V3-02_L1B-003.02](https://doi.org/10.5067/WFC/CALIPSO/CAL_WFC_L1_1KM-VALSTAGE1-V3-02_L1B-003.02)