The OMI Aerosol Index layer indicates the presence of ultraviolet (UV)-absorbing particles in the air (aerosols) such as desert dust and soot particles in the atmosphere. The Aerosol Index layer is useful for identifying and tracking the long-range transport of volcanic ash from volcanic eruptions, smoke from wildfires or biomass burning events and dust from desert dust storms, even tracking over clouds and areas of snow and ice.

Aerosols absorb and scatter incoming sunlight, which reduces visibility and increases the optical depth. Aerosols have an effect on human health, weather and the climate. Sources of aerosols include pollution from factories, smoke from fires, dust from dust storms, sea salts, and volcanic ash and smog. Aerosols compromise human health when inhaled by people with asthma or other respiratory illnesses. Aerosols also have an affect on the weather and climate by cooling or warming the Earth, helping or preventing clouds from forming.

The OMI Aerosol Index layer is a science parameter of the Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) Level 2 Near UV Aerosol Optical Depth and Single Scattering Albedo Swath 13x24 km (OMAERUV) available from the OMI instrument on the Aura satellite. The sensor resolution is 25 km, imagery resolution is 2 km, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: OMAERUV NRT and OMAERUV [doi:10.5067/Aura/OMI/DATA2004](https://doi.org/10.5067/Aura/OMI/DATA2004); [Ozone Monitoring Instrument (OMI) Data User’s Guide](https://docserver.gesdisc.eosdis.nasa.gov/repository/Mission/OMI/3.3_ScienceDataProductDocumentation/3.3.2_ProductRequirements_Designs/README.OMI_DUG.pdf)
