The Surface Soil Moisture C1-band (Day, Daily) layer is from the AMSR2/GCOM-W1 surface soil moisture (LPRM) L3 1 day 25 km x 25 km ascending V001 is a Level 3 (gridded) data set. Its land surface parameters, surface soil moisture, land surface (skin) temperature, and vegetation water content, are derived from passive microwave remote sensing data from the Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer 2 (AMSR2), using the Land Parameter Retrieval Model (LPRM). There are two files per day, one ascending (daytime) and one descending (nighttime), archived as two different products. This document is for the nighttime product. The data set covers the period from May 2012, when the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency (JAXA) Global Change Observation Mission-1st Water GCOM-W1 satellite was launched, to the present.

The LPRM is based on a forward radiative transfer model to retrieve surface soil moisture and vegetation optical depth. The land surface temperature is derived separately from the AMSR2's Ka-band (36.5 GHz). A unique feature of this method is that it can be applied at any microwave frequency, making it very suitable to exploit all the available passive microwave data from various satellites.

Input data are from the AMSR2 spatial-resolution-matched brightness temperatures (L1SGRTBR) product, nighttime passes, as processed using LPRM (i.e., LPRM/AMSR2/GCOM-W1 Level 2 product, LPRM_AMSR2_SOILM2_V001).

References: [doi:10.5067/M5DTR2QUYLS2](https://dx.doi.org/10.5067/M5DTR2QUYLS2)
