### AMSR2 Snow Water Equivalent
Temporal coverage: 30 July 2015 - present

The AMSR2 Snow Water Equivalent layer indicates the amount of water that is contained in snowpack in the Northern and Southern Hemispheres measured in millimeters (mm). Another way to think of it is if all the snow were melted instantaneously, it would be the depth of that water. The snow water equivalent layer is useful for assessing the amount of water that is present in the snowpack and can be used to assess surface runoff when the snow melts and to assess water availability for regions in lower elevations.

The Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer 2 (AMSR2) instrument is a conically scanning passive microwave radiometer sensing microwave radiation at 12 channels and 6 frequencies ranging from 6.9 to 89 GHz on board the Global Change Observation Mission – Water 1 (GCOM-W1) satellite. This layer is part of the GCOM-W1 AMSR2 Level-3 Snow Water Equivalent (SWE) data set, which contains snow water equivalent (SWE) data and quality assurance flags mapped to the Northern and Southern Hemisphere 25 km Equal-Area Scalable Earth Grids (EASE-Grids). As NRT Tb Level -1R data are received from JAXA throughout the day, partial daily products are generated and identified with a product maturity code of "P" in the filename. Once all Level-1R inputs are available, the complete daily product contains product maturity code "R" (near Real time) in the filename. Incremental processing makes data available to the user as it is received, rather than at the end of the day. The imagery resolution is 2 km and sensor resolution is 5 km. The temporal resolution is daily (partial NRT files updated throughout the day to a final product).

References: [LANCE AMSR2 Near Real-Time Snow Products Available](https://earthdata.nasa.gov/earth-observation-data/near-real-time/lance-amsr2-near-real-time-snow-products-available); [Snow Water Equivalent](http://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/hydrology/data-holdings/parameters/snow_water_equivalent.shtml); [AMSR-E/Aqua L3 Global Snow Water Equivalent EASE-Grids, Version 2](https://nsidc.org/data/AE_DySno/versions/2); [NRT AMSR2 Daily L3 Global Snow Water Equivalent EASE-Grids](https://ghrc.nsstc.nasa.gov/hydro/details/A2_DySno_NRT)
