The Synergistic TEMPO (Tropospheric Emissions: Monitoring of Pollution) Air Quality Science (STAQS) mission G-III Flight Tracks provide the locations of where the NASA LaRC G-III aircraft collected measurements to support the STAQS field campaign. The G-III was equipped with a remote sensing payload, including the High-Altitude Lidar Observatory (HALO) and Airborne Visible InfraRed Imaging Spectrometer – Next Generation (AVIRIS-NG). The Geostationary Coastal and Air Pollution Events (GeoCAPE) Airborne Simulator (GCAS) replaced AVIRIS-NG on the G-III after August 15, 2023. The G-III measured city-scale emissions 2x-3x per day over the targeted cities, with the HALO providing a city-scale view of column CH4 using the DIAL technique, along with profiles of aerosol/cloud optical properties using the HSRL technique. AVIRIS-NG measured CH4 and CO2 emissions estimates over large sources.

NASA’s Synergistic TEMPO Air Quality Science (STAQS) mission integrated TEMPO satellite observations with traditional air quality monitoring to improve understanding of air quality science. STAQS was conducted during summer 2023, targeting urban areas, including Los Angeles, New York City, and Chicago. The STAQS measurement strategy featured two aircraft equipped with remote sensing payloads, ground-based tropospheric ozone profiles from the NASA Tropospheric Ozone Lidar Network (TOLNet), NO2, HCHO, ozone measurements from Pandora spectrometers, and leveraged existing ground networks.

The primary goal of STAQS was to improve our current understanding of air quality science under the TEMPO field of regard. Further goals included evaluating TEMPO level 2 data products, interpreting the temporal and spatial evolution of air quality events tracked by TEMPO, improving temporal estimates of anthropogenic, biogenic, and greenhouse gas emissions, and assessing the benefit of assimilating TEMPO data into chemical transport models. STAQS measurements have been used in TEMPO validation, which contributed to the TEMPO team achieving provisional validation status for the HCHO, NO2, and ozone products.

References: [STAQS Data in Action](https://asdc.larc.nasa.gov/micro-article/introduction-to-the-synergistic-tempo-air-quality-science-staqs-field-campaign)

STAQS at the ASDC: [doi:10.5067/SUBORBITAL/STAQS/DATA001](https://asdc.larc.nasa.gov/project/STAQS)

TEMPO at the ASDC: [ASDC TEMPO Project Page](https://asdc.larc.nasa.gov/project/TEMPO)