### About SPEXone
PACE's SPEXone instrument is a multi-angle polarimeter. It measures the intensity, Degree of Linear Polarization (DoLP) and Angle of Linear Polarization (AoLP) of sunlight reflected back from Earth's atmosphere, land surface, and ocean. The focus of the SPEXone development is to achieve a very high accuracy of DoLP measurements, which facilitates accurate characterization of aerosols in the atmosphere.

Aerosols are small solid or liquid particles suspended in the air that affect climate directly through interaction with solar radiation. Aerosols affect climate indirectly by changing the micro- and macro-physical properties of clouds. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, aerosols are the largest source of error in quantifying the radiative forcing of climate change. SPEXone enables measurements of optical and micro-physical properties of aerosols with unprecedented detail and accuracy.


### About PACE
[PACE](https://pace.gsfc.nasa.gov/) is NASA's Plankton, Aerosol, Cloud, ocean Ecosystem mission. The mission carries the Ocean Color Instrument (OCI), the Spectro-Polarimeter for Planetary Exploration (SPEXone), and the Hyper Angular Research Polarimeter (HARP2). OCI, PACE’s primary instrument, is an optical spectrometer that measures the intensity of light over portions of the electromagnetic spectrum. SPEXone and HARP2 are multi-angle polarimeters and they will be used to measure how the oscillation of sunlight within a geometric plane - known as its polarization - is changed by passing through clouds, aerosols, and the ocean. Measuring polarization states of UV-to-shortwave light at various angles provides detailed information on the atmosphere and ocean, such as particle size and composition. PACE will cover the entire globe every two days.
