The Black Marble Gap-Filled BRDF Corrected Nighttime Lights (Day/Night Band) layer is a daily, moonlight- and atmopshere-corrected night time lights layer. It is created from NASA’s Black Marble daily at-sensor top-of-atmosphere nighttime radiance product (VNP46A1), daily DNB BRDF/Albedo Model Parameters (VNP43LGDNBA1), daily surface reflectance (VNPPLG09GA), and daily Aerosol Optical Thickness (VNP04LGA). It is displayed as a grayscale image. The layer is expressed in radiance units (nW/(cm<sup>2</sup> sr))  with log10 conversion.

The VIIRS DNB’s ultra-sensitivity in lowlight conditions enable us to generate a set of science-quality nighttime products that manifest substantial improvements in sensor resolution and calibration when compared to the previous era of Defense Meteorological Satellite Program/Operational Linescan System’s (DMSP/OLS) nighttime lights image products. Such improvements allow the VIIRS DNB products to better monitor both the magnitude and signature of nighttime phenomena, and anthropogenic sources of light emissions.

The Black Marble Gap-Filled BRDF Corrected Nighttime Lights (Day/Night Band) layer is available in near real-time from the Visible Infrared Imaging Radiometer Suite (VIIRS) aboard the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite. The sensor resolution is 750 m at nadir, imagery resolution is 500 m, and the temporal resolution is daily.

References: VNP46A2_NRT [doi:10.5067/VIIRS/VNP46A2_NRT.002](https://doi.org/10.5067/VIIRS/VNP46A2_NRT.002)