The VIIRS Apparent Reflectance (VNP02MOD, Band M09) layer is a direct measure of the portion of reflected and scattered solar light over the VIIRS M09 bandpass by the upper level cirrus clouds. The M09 band is located within a strong atmospheric water band absorption. The mechanism for cirrus detections with this band is as following. In the absence of cirrus clouds, this band receives little scattered solar radiation by the surface and the low-level water clouds because of the total absorption of solar radiation by atmospheric water vapor located above them. When the upper-level cirrus clouds are present, however, this band receives solar radiation by the cirrus clouds that contrasts well on the nearly black background. Cirrus-detecting bands, similar to VIIRS M09 and MODIS Band 26, have been implemented in many other satellite instruments, including the US Landsat-8 Operational Land Imager (OLI) and the European Sentinel-2 Multi-Spetral Imager (MSI). Because the M09 Band subjects to absorption by water vapor molecules located above and within cirrus clouds, the image of M09 Band is usable for cirrus detections, but not directly usable for the quantitative removal of cirrus effects in other VIIRS bands.

The Apparent Reflectance (VNP02MOD, Band M09) layer is available from the joint NASA/NOAA Suomi National Polar orbiting Partnership (Suomi NPP) satellite (CLDCR_L2_VIIRS_SNPP) for the daytime overpass. The sensor resolution is 750 m at nadir, imagery resolution is 750 m at nadir, and the temporal resolution is daily. Resolution is coarser toward both the left and the right edges of an imaging swath.

Consult the [NASA VIIRS Suomi-NPP Level-2 Cirrus Reflectance Product User Guide](https://ladsweb.modaps.eosdis.nasa.gov/api/v2/content/archives/Document%20Archive/Science%20Data%20Product%20Documentation/VIIRS_Cirrus_Refl_User_Guide_Oct_2020.pdf) for additional information.

References: CLDCR_L2_VIIRS_SNPP.001 [doi:10.5067/VIIRS/CLDCR_L2_VIIRS_SNPP.001](https://doi.org/10.5067/VIIRS/CLDCR_L2_VIIRS_SNPP.001)



