The Carbon Dioxide (L3, Free Troposphere, Monthly) layer displays monthly Carbon Dioxide in the free troposphere. It is created from the AIRX3C2M data product which is the AIRS mid-tropospheric Carbon Dioxide (CO2) Level 3 Monthly Gridded Retrieval, from the AIRS and AMSU instruments on board of Aqua satellite. It is monthly gridded data at 2.5x2 degreee (lon)x(lat) grid cell size. The data is in mole fraction units (data x 10^6 =ppm in volume). This quantity is not a total column quantity because the sensitivity function of the AIRS mid-tropospheric CO2 retrieval system peaks over the altitude range 6-10 km. The quantity is what results when the true atmospheric CO2 profile is weighted, level-by-level, by the AIRS sensitivity function.

The Atmospheric Infrared Sounder (AIRS), in conjunction with the Advanced Microwave Sounding Unit (AMSU), senses emitted infrared and microwave radiation from Earth to provide a three-dimensional look at Earth's weather and climate. Working in tandem, the two instruments make simultaneous observations down to Earth's surface. With more than 2,000 channels sensing different regions of the atmosphere, the system creates a global, three-dimensional map of atmospheric temperature and humidity, cloud amounts and heights, greenhouse gas concentrations and many other atmospheric phenomena. Launched into Earth orbit in 2002, the AIRS and AMSU instruments fly onboard NASA's Aqua spacecraft and are managed by NASA's Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, California. More information about AIRS can be found at [https://airs.jpl.nasa.gov](https://airs.jpl.nasa.gov).

References: AIRX3C2M [doi:10.5067/Aqua/AIRS/DATA339](https://doi.org/10.5067/Aqua/AIRS/DATA339)