### Sea Surface Currents (Meridional)
Temporal coverage: 12 October 1992 - present

The Sea Surface Currents (Meridional) layer is from the OSCAR third degree resolution ocean surface currents dataset. OSCAR (Ocean Surface Current Analysis Real-time) contains near-surface ocean current estimates, derived using quasi-linear and steady flow momentum equations. The horizontal velocity is directly estimated from sea surface height, surface vector wind and sea surface temperature. These data were collected from the various satellites and in situ instruments. The model formulation combines geostrophic, Ekman and Stommel shear dynamics, and a complementary term from the surface buoyancy gradient.  Data are on a 1/3 degree grid with a 5 day resolution.  OSCAR is generated by [Earth Space Research (ESR)](https://www.esr.org/research/oscar/). 

### Sea Surface Currents (Zonal)
Temporal coverage: 12 October 1992 - present

The Sea Surface Currents (Zonal) layer is from the OSCAR third degree resolution ocean surface currents dataset. OSCAR (Ocean Surface Current Analysis Real-time) contains near-surface ocean current estimates, derived using quasi-linear and steady flow momentum equations. The horizontal velocity is directly estimated from sea surface height, surface vector wind and sea surface temperature. These data were collected from the various satellites and in situ instruments. The model formulation combines geostrophic, Ekman and Stommel shear dynamics, and a complementary term from the surface buoyancy gradient.  Data are on a 1/3 degree grid with a 5 day resolution.  OSCAR is generated by [Earth Space Research (ESR)](https://www.esr.org/research/oscar/). 
