The Tropospheric Emissions: Monitoring of Pollution (TEMPO) Level 3 (L3) Ozone Column Amount layer provides information on the total amount of ozone in a vertical column of the atmosphere and is measured in Dobson Units (DU). The retrieval is based on the Ozone Monitoring Instrument Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (OMI TOMS) V8.5 algorithm adapted for TEMPO.

Imagery is available as approximately one-hour scans for daylight hours over North America. The sensor’s native spatial resolution is ~2 km x 4.75 km at the center of TEMPO’s field of regard (FOR). The Level 3 product is regridded from the Level 2 product onto a 0.02 degree longitude x 0.02 degree latitude grid, and the imagery sampling is 2 km. The layer is filtered to remove low-quality pixels based on the solar zenith angle (removing data retrieved at high solar zenith angles) and viewing zenith angle (removing data retrieved at high viewing zenith angles). The filters applied are set to remove pixels based on the following: solar zenith angle greater than 80 degrees and viewing zenith angle greater than 80 degrees.

Total ozone Level 3 files provide ozone and supporting information on a regular grid. Level 3 files are derived by combining information from all Level 2 files constituting a TEMPO East-West scan cycle, using an area-weighted regridding approach. The temporal resolution of a nominal scan is approximately one hour during daylight hours, with more frequent scans in the morning over the eastern portion of the FOR and in the evenings over the western portion of the FOR.

References: TEMPO_O3TOT_L3 [doi:10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/O3TOT_L3.003](https://doi.org/10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/O3TOT_L3.003)
