The Tropospheric Emissions: Monitoring of Pollution (TEMPO) Total Ozone Column Amount layer provides information on the total amount of ozone in a vertical column of the atmosphere. The retrieval is performed using the Smithsonian Astrophysical Observatory (SAO) ozone profile algorithm, which is based on the optimal estimation method. The total ozone column was calculated by integrating the ozone profile provided in 24 vertical layers.

Imagery is available as approximately one-hour scans for daylight hours over North America. The sensor’s native spatial resolution is ~2 km x 4.75 km at the center of TEMPO’s field of regard (FOR), and the product’s spatial resolution is ~8 km x 4.75 km. The Level 3 product is regridded from the Level 2 product onto a 0.04 longitude x 0.04 latitude grid, and the imagery sampling is 4 km. The layer is filtered to remove low-quality pixels based on several criteria, using solar zenith angle (removing data retrieved at high solar zenith angles), viewing zenith angle (removing data retrieved at high viewing zenith angles), and effective cloud fraction (removing where clouds obscure the column) variables. The filters applied are set to remove pixels based on the following: solar zenith angle greater than 80 degrees, viewing zenith angle greater than 80 degrees, and effective cloud fraction greater than 0.5.

Ozone profile Level 3 files provide ozone (ozone profile, total ozone column, troposphere ozone column, and stratosphere ozone column) and supporting information on a regular grid. Level 3 files are derived by combining information from all Level 2 files constituting a TEMPO East-West scan cycle, using an area-weighted regridding approach. The temporal resolution of a nominal scan is approximately one hour during daylight hours, with more frequent scans in the morning over the eastern portion of the FOR and in the evenings over the western portion of the FOR.

References: TEMPO_O3PROF_L3 [doi:10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/O3PROF_L3.004](https://dx.doi.org/10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/O3PROF_L3.004)