The Tropospheric Emissions: Monitoring of Pollution (TEMPO) Level 2 (L2) Ozone Column Amount layer provides information on the total amount of ozone in a vertical column of the atmosphere and is measured in Dobson Units (DU). The retrieval is based on the Ozone Monitoring Instrument Total Ozone Mapping Spectrometer (OMI TOMS) V8.5 algorithm adapted for TEMPO.

Imagery is available as approximately six-minute granules for daylight hours over North America. The sensor’s native spatial resolution is ~2 km x 4.75 km at the center of TEMPO’s field of regard (FOR). The imagery is generated at 1 km resolution by projecting the data onto a regular grid using an Elliptically Weighted Averaging Nearest Neighbor interpolation method. The layer is filtered to remove low-quality pixels using the main data quality flag (removing low confidence measurements), solar zenith angle (removing data retrieved at high solar zenith angles), and viewing zenith angle (removing data retrieved at high viewing zenith angles). The filters applied are set to remove pixels based on the following: main data quality flag not equal to 0, 1, 2, or 5; solar zenith angle greater than 80 degrees; and viewing zenith angle greater than 80 degrees.
Total ozone Level 2 files provide ozone and supporting information at TEMPO’s native spatial resolution for individual granules. Each granule covers the entire North-South TEMPO FOR but only a portion of the East-West FOR. The temporal resolution of a nominal scan is approximately one hour during daylight hours, with more frequent scans in the morning over the eastern portion of the FOR and in the evenings over the western portion of the FOR.

Total ozone Level 2 files provide ozone and supporting information at TEMPO’s native spatial resolution for individual granules. Each granule covers the entire North-South TEMPO FOR but only a portion of the East-West FOR. The temporal resolution of a nominal scan is approximately one hour during daylight hours, with more frequent scans in the morning over the eastern portion of the FOR and in the evenings over the western portion of the FOR.

References: TEMPO_O3TOT_L2 [doi:10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/O3TOT_L2.003](https://doi.org/10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/O3TOT_L2.003)