The Tropospheric Emissions: Monitoring of Pollution (TEMPO) Level 2 (L2) Formaldehyde Vertical Column layer provides information on the total amount of formaldehyde in a vertical column of the atmosphere. This is provided as the total number of formaldehyde molecules in a column of air above one square centimeter on the Earth’s surface (molecules/cm<sup>2</sup>).

Imagery is available as approximately six-minute granules for daylight hours over North America. The sensor’s native spatial resolution is ~2 km x 4.75 km at the center of TEMPO’s field of regard (FOR). The imagery is generated at 1 km resolution by projecting the data onto a regular grid using an Elliptically Weighted Averaging Nearest Neighbor interpolation method. The layer is filtered to remove low-quality pixels using the main data quality flag (removing low confidence measurements), solar zenith angle (removing data retrieved at high solar zenith angles), and effective cloud fraction (removing where clouds obscure the column) variables. The filters applied are set to remove pixels based on the following: main data quality flag greater than 1, effective cloud fraction greater than 0.5, and solar zenith angle greater than 80 degrees.

Formaldehyde Level 2 files provide trace gas information at TEMPO’s native spatial resolution for individual granules. Each granule covers the entire North-South TEMPO FOR but only a portion of the East-West FOR. The temporal resolution of a nominal scan is approximately one hour during daylight hours, with more frequent scans in the morning over the eastern portion of the FOR and in the evenings over the western portion of the FOR.

TEMPO Near Real-Time (NRT) imagery is available approximately 3-4 hours after data retrieval. This imagery is replaced by the standard product imagery as it becomes available. TEMPO NRT data are produced using a fast version of the TEMPO baseline retrieval processor. The NRT processing optimizes radiance calibration, image navigation and registration, and cloud and trace gas retrievals for rapid processing, while ensuring that product quality is sufficient for most NRT applications. NRT imagery may show East-West oriented stripes associated with using a radiance reference calculated with observations from previous days.

References: TEMPO_HCHO_L2_NRT [doi:10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/HCHO_NRT_L2.002](https://doi.org/10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/HCHO_NRT_L2.002); TEMPO_HCHO_L2 [doi:10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/HCHO_L2.003](https://doi.org/10.5067/IS-40e/TEMPO/HCHO_L2.003)
