The OCO-3 Carbon Dioxide (Total Column Average) layer displays the column-averaged dry-air mole fraction of carbon dioxide (XCO<sub>2</sub>) in the vertical column of the atmosphere (i.e. from Earth’s surface to the top of the atmosphere) and is measured in parts per million (ppm). This layer is created from the OCO-3 "Early" version which is an expedited version intended for provisional familiarizing with the instrument spectral and calibration properties.

Carbon dioxide (CO<sub>2</sub>) is an odorless, colorless gas and is the fourth most abundant component of dry air (after nitrogen, oxygen and argon). CO<sub>2</sub> is an important greenhouse gas that helps trap heat in the atmosphere. As a part of the carbon cycle, CO<sub>2</sub> can be emitted (e.g. from respiration by plants and soils or from wildfires) or absorbed (e.g. from plant photosynthesis or by dissolving into the oceans). Human activities such as the combustion of fossil fuels and biomass burning are sources of CO<sub>2</sub>.

The Orbiting Carbon Observatory-3 (OCO-3) was deployed to the International Space Station in May, 2019. It is technically a single instrument, almost identical to OCO-2. The Orbiting Carbon Observatory is the first NASA mission designed to collect space-based measurements of atmospheric carbon dioxide with the precision, resolution, and coverage needed to characterize the processes controlling its buildup in the atmosphere. OCO-3 incorporates three high-resolution spectrometers that make coincident measurements of reflected sunlight in the near-infrared CO2 near 1.61 and 2.06 micrometers and in molecular oxygen (O2) A-Band at 0.76 micrometers. The three spectrometers have different characteristics and are calibrated independently.

References: [OCO3_L2_Lite_FP](https://disc.gsfc.nasa.gov/datasets/OCO3_L2_Lite_FP_EarlyR/summary)