### About Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence
Solar Induced Chlorophyll Fluorescence (SIF) is a byproduct of plant photosynthesis and is a direct measurement of plant response during respiration. During photosynthesis, among the other light reactions, a photon can be re-emitted and this energy decay is known as chlorophyll fluorescence. SIF is a complement to existing greenness indicators such as the normalized difference vegetation index (NDVI) and can be used to serve as a functional proxy for Gross Primary Productivity (GPP).

### About OCO-3
The Orbiting Carbon Observatory-3 (OCO-3) was deployed to the International Space Station in May, 2019. It is technically a single instrument, almost identical to OCO-2. OCO-3 "Early" version is an expedited version intended for provisional familiarizing with the instrument spectral and calibration properties. The Orbiting Carbon Observatory is the first NASA mission designed to collect space-based measurements of atmospheric carbon dioxide with the precision, resolution, and coverage needed to characterize the processes controlling its buildup in the atmosphere. OCO-3 incorporates three high-resolution spectrometers that make coincident measurements of reflected sunlight in the near-infrared CO2 near 1.61 and 2.06 micrometers and in molecular oxygen (O2) A-Band at 0.76 micrometers. The three spectrometers have different characteristics and are calibrated independently. This collection encompass the output from the IMAP-DOAS preprocessor, which is used for both screening of the official XCO2 product as well as for the retrieval of Solar-Induced Fluorescence from the 0.76 micrometer O2 A-band. The IMAP-DOAS preprocessor, just as the ABO2 cloud screen, is implemented in the operational OCO-3 processing pipeline.