### GHRSST Sea Ice Concentration (L4, MUR)
Temporal coverage: 1 June 2002 - present
The Sea Ice Concentration (L4, MUR) layer created from the GHRSST Sea Surface Temperature Level 4, MUR sea surface temperature analysis product, which uses wavelets as basis functions in an optimal interpolation approach on a global 0.011 degree grid. The version 4 Multiscale Ultrahigh Resolution (MUR) L4 analysis is based upon nighttime GHRSST L2P skin and subskin SST observations from several instruments including the NASA Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer-EOS (AMSR-E), the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometer (MODIS) on the NASA Aqua and Terra platforms, the US Navy microwave WindSat radiometer and in situ SST observations from the NOAA iQuam project. The ice concentration data are from the archives at the EUMETSAT Ocean and Sea Ice Satellite Application Facility (OSI SAF) High Latitude Processing Center and are also used for an improved SST parameterization for the high-latitudes.

References: [PO.DAAC - GHRSST Level 4 MUR Global Foundation Sea Surface Temperature Analysis](https://podaac.jpl.nasa.gov/dataset/MUR-JPL-L4-GLOB-v4.1)


### GHRSST Sea Ice Concentration (L4, MUR25)
Temporal coverage: 1 September 2002 - present
The Sea Ice Concentration (L4, MUR25) layer is a Group for High Resolution Sea Surface Temperature (GHRSST) Level 4 sea surface temperature analysis. It is produced as a retrospective dataset (four day latency) and near-real-time dataset (one day latency) at the JPL Physical Oceanography DAAC using wavelets as basis functions in an optimal interpolation approach on a global 0.25 degree grid. The version 4 Multiscale Ultrahigh Resolution (MUR) L4 analysis is based upon nighttime GHRSST L2P skin and subskin SST observations from several instruments including the NASA Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer-EOS (AMSR-E), the JAXA Advanced Microwave Scanning Radiometer 2 on GCOM-W1, the Moderate Resolution Imaging Spectroradiometers (MODIS) on the NASA Aqua and Terra platforms, the US Navy microwave WindSat radiometer, the Advanced Very High Resolution Radiometer (AVHRR) on several NOAA satellites, and in situ SST observations from the NOAA iQuam project. The ice concentration data are from the archives at the EUMETSAT Ocean and Sea Ice Satellite Application Facility (OSI SAF) High Latitude Processing Center and are also used for an improved SST parameterization for the high-latitudes.   The dataset also contains an additional SST anomaly variable derived from a MUR climatology.


This dataset is funded by the [NASA MEaSUREs program](http://earthdata.nasa.gov/our-community/community-data-system-programs/measures-projects), and created by a team led by Dr. Toshio M. Chin from JPL. It adheres to the GHRSST Data Processing Specification (GDS) version 2 format specifications. Use the file global metadata "history:" attribute to determine if a granule is near-realtime or retrospective.

References: doi:[10.5067/GHM25-4FJ42](https://doi.org/10.5067/GHM25-4FJ42)


### GHRSST Sea Ice Concentration (L4, GAMSSA GDS2)
Temporal coverage: 23 July 2008 - present
The Sea Ice Concentration (GAMSSA GDS2) layer is a Group for High Resolution Sea Surface Temperature (GHRSST) Level 4 sea surface temperature analysis, produced daily on an operational basis at the Australian Bureau of Meteorology (BoM) using optimal interpolation (OI) on a global 0.25 degree grid. This Global Australian Multi-Sensor SST Analysis (GAMSSA) v1.0 system blends satellite SST observations from passive infrared and passive microwave radiometers with in situ data from ships, drifting buoys and moorings from the Global Telecommunications System (GTS). SST observations that have experienced recent surface wind speeds less than 6 m/s during the day or less than 2 m/s during night are rejected from the analysis.  The processing results in daily foundation SST estimates that are largely free of nocturnal cooling and diurnal warming effects.  Sea ice concentrations are supplied by the NOAA/NCEP 12.7 km sea ice analysis.  In the absence of observations, the analysis relaxes to the Reynolds and Smith (1994) Monthly 1 degree SST climatology for 1961 - 1990.

References: doi:[10.5067/GHGAM-4FA1A](https://doi.org/10.5067/GHGAM-4FA1A)