The Aerosol Optical Depth 500nm (Near Real-Time) layer shows aerosol optical depth at 500 nanometers (nm) from the Level 1.5 data for AERONET ground-based remote sensing aerosol network sites. Level 1.5 is automatically cloud cleared but may not have final calibration applied. These data are NOT quality assured.

Aerosol Optical Depth (AOD) (or Aerosol Optical Thickness) indicates the level at which particles in the air (aerosols) prevent light from traveling through the atmosphere. Aerosols scatter and absorb incoming sunlight, which reduces visibility. From an observer on the ground, an AOD of less than 0.1 is “clean” - characteristic of clear blue sky, bright sun and maximum visibility. As AOD increases to 0.5, 1.0, and greater than 3.0, aerosols become so dense that sun is obscured. Sources of aerosols include pollution from factories, smoke from fires, dust from dust storms, sea salt, and volcanic ash and smog. Aerosols compromise human health when inhaled by people, particularly those with asthma or other respiratory illnesses. Aerosols also have an effect on the weather and climate by cooling or warming the Earth, helping or preventing clouds from forming.

Each AERONET ground-based remote sensing aerosol network site consist of a sun photometer and satellite transmission system. Sun photometer measurements of the direct (collimated) solar radiation provide information to calculate the columnar aerosol optical depth (AOD). AOD can be used to compute columnar water vapor (Precipitable Water) and estimate the aerosol size using the Angstrom parameter relationship.

The Near Real-Time layer displays the reading from the last one hour, ranging from < 0.0 to 5.0. Inactive sites are denoted in grey. Data for this layer is provided by the The AErosol RObotic NETwork ([AERONET](https://aeronet.gsfc.nasa.gov/)) program.

References: [AERONET Aerosol Optical Depth](https://aeronet.gsfc.nasa.gov/new_web/aerosols.html)